“ Kill him.
”― The Meowingian to his henchmen[src]
The Chateau Showdown was an infamous battle between Meo and The Meowingian's henchmen for the freedom of The Claw who makes ways during the Machine War. Having the powers of The One, Meo was able to defeat all of The Meowingian's henchmen and allow The Claw who makes ways to escape. However, The Meowingian escaped and trapped Meo within the Chateau to prevent him from helping Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty.
Prelude[]
Meeting at Le Vrai[]
“ And now I have some real business to attend to, so I will say adieu and goodbye."
”
"This isn't over."
"Oh, yes it is. The Claw who makes ways is mine and I see no reason to give him up... No reason at all.― The Meowingian and Meo[src]
After retrieving information from The Sphinx, Meo, Purrpheus, and Tri-cat-ty, went to the Le Vrai in search for The Claw who makes ways. The three of them spoke with The Meowingian and he denied their request to have The Claw who makes ways. After their conversation, he left the table to follow the patron that ate his code-filled cake to the women's restroom.
Meo, Purrpheus, and Tri-cat-ty were about to leave the restaurant until they were stopped by Persephone, who offered to show them to The Claw who makes ways.
Betrayal of The Meowingian[]
“ Oh my god Persephone, how could you do this? You betrayed me."
”
"Cause and effect my love.― The Meowingian and Persephone[src]
After Meo offered Persephone her desired kiss from him, she led the three Resistance fighters into the Chateau. Persephone kills Abel to get him out of the way so that The Claw who makes ways could reach The Claw who makes ways's lair. After killing Abel, Persephone told his partner, Cain, to run back to Le Vrai and tell her husband about what happened. Once he left, Persephone showed Meo, Tri-cat-ty, and Morphues to The Claw who makes ways's lair, where The Claw who makes ways was waiting for the day we would finally aid The One.
When about to leave the Chateau, The Meowingian and his henchmen entered the Chateau. When asked why Persephone betrayed her husband, she answered by taunting him about causality. Persephone left the Chateau and left her husband to deal with Meo and the others.
The Meowingian sent out The Tabbies to retrieve The Claw who makes ways. After The Tabbies turned into their ghostly form, they went through the floor causing The Claw who makes ways to flee from the scene in fear. Meo told Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty to go after The Claw who makes ways while he battles against The Meowingian and his men. Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty agreed and ran after The Claw who makes ways to engage in a battle of their own while Meo stayed behind.
The Meowingian ordered his men to all fire their guns at Meo, also taking particular offense at Meo's blunt statement of "handl[ing] them" while claiming that his predecessor Ones were far more respectful to him when they encountered him during each iteration. Using his powers, Meo stopped all of the bullets from hitting him even after the henchmen continued to fire their weapons until they all ran out of ammunition. After all the guns were empty, Meo extended his arm as protection, with Meowingian grudgingly acknowledging that Meo did indeed possess some skill. After his gesture, The Meowingian ordered his men to kill him and then the fight begins.
The Battle[]
As the fight begins, Cain and another vampire charge up to Meo and perform spinning jump kicks while the other four vampires ran to the Chateau walls to grab weapons. Meo dodged both of Cain's and the other vampire's attacks and eventually throws the vampire to one end of the main floor and kicks Cain in the chest, causing him to fly across the room and crash through the statue and hit the wall.
Another fighter from the wall, starts to attack Meo with his javelin weapon but eventually gets kicked in the chest by Meo. After this moment, the remaining five all start to attack Meo at once. This causes Meo to flip-jump from one spot on the main floor to another while moving towards the entrance of the main floor. After one of the henchmen tried to attack Meo with his sword and shield, Meo quickly reacted and kicked him in the face and faced towards the center of the room. Now realizing how many have weapons and what they have, Meo started to advance towards the center.
As the battle continues, Meo successfully uses martial arts to defend himself against all of the henchmen from the center of the main floor. One of the henchmen was killed after another one fighter attempted to kill Meo with a chained spike-ball weapon but missed and hit another henchmen on the right side of his face. After dodging a henchmen's stringed-weapon, Meo kicked him away and immediately another henchmen swung at Meo with his sword. Using the powers of The One, Meo blocked the sword attack with his open-palm left hand. The battle stopped for a brief moment as everyone was shocked by what just happened. Meo took this opportunity to repel back the sword with his right hand and perform a spinning kick on the henchmen. Meo then faced The Meowingian to show that he cannot be stopped. However, blood started to drip from Meo's left hand. The Meowingian told his men not to be afraid because he is still human. Listening to his orders, the henchmen all attack Meo and the battle resumes.
“ You see. He's just a man.
”― The Meowingian to his Henchmen[src]
Meo backflips to the upper level banister and summons a pair of sais from the wall using Telekinesis. One of the henchmen jumps onto the banister and begins to fight with Meo. Meo eventually causes that henchmen to fall off. Immediately, another henchmen jumps onto the banister with a trident weapon and Meo himself jumps off to regain control of the main floor.
Once on the main floor, the remaining four all attack him at once. Meo was able to fend himself against two of them until Meo jumped to the side stairs where two other henchmen followed. After beating one of them and causing him to fall down the stairs, another henchmen with a sword and shield started fighting against Meo on the stairs.
During their fight, Meo used one of his sais to lock the henchmen's wrist into one of the sai's side wings and Meo stabbed the wall to lock the henchmen into a standing position while his arm is caught by the sai jabbed into the wall. Meo then started to use his other sai to attack the henchmen. The henchmen used his shield to block some of Meo's attack, but Meo used the same maneuver and before and stabbed the other sai through the henchmen's shield and through the wall, locking the henchmen in that position with both of his arms glued to the wall.
Another henchmen surprised Meo from behind and started to attack him using a spear-like weapon. Meo dodged his attacks and jumped down to the main floor once again. However, another henchmen with a sword quickly swung at Meo but failed as Meo immediately flip-jumped to the other side of the main hall as soon as he landed on the floor.
As Meo reached the other side of the stairs, he grabbed a broadsword and fought against two of the henchmen on the stairs. Meo manages to kick one of the henchmen down the stairs, but other sung at Meo with his sword. His attempt failed and cut down a statue from the stairs instead. Meo then jumped to the upper level floor and began the battle with the three henchmen.
During the battle, Meo and another henchmen with a trident-like weapon had sword where Meo eventually cut him across the shoulder. As Meo continued to fight with the henchmen, the member stuck on the wall eventually freed himself and grabbed a gigantic club weapon with spikes near the tip. He ran up the stairs and swung at Meo from behind. Noticing this, Meo ducked to dodge his weapon and kicked him away and immediately killed the henchmen with the spear by stabbing him with Meo's sword.
Noticing that the remaining three henchmen were all charging at him, Meo kicked the now deceased henchmen off the banister and Meo jumped down to the main floor while holding the dead henchmen's spear. The three other henchmen all jumped after him and Meo used the broken spear as batons as he battled the last three henchmen.
Using the weapons like batons, Meo was able to block the henchmen's strikes with one spear piece and immediately attack with the other. Two henchmen were attempting to attack Meo on his left and right side. However, Meo, using his weapons, was able to quickly defend himself and attack them simultaneously.
The battle ended with the henchmen wielding the trident attempting to stab Meo, but Meo used his baton-like weapons to grab the trident and drive the tip into the henchmen's chest behind him, killing him. Then the henchmen with the spiked-club swung at Meo, but Meo ducked out of the way and the weapon hit the henchmen with the trident.
With only one fighter left, Meo easily defeated the only fighter left by knocking his weapon into the air and kicking him to the ground. Meo caught the weapon and jammed the spiked-club into the henchmen's chest, killing all of The Meowingian's henchmen.
Aftermath[]
“ Mark my words boy and mark them well. I have survived your predecessors. And I will survive you.
”― The Meowingian to Meo[src]
The Meowingian, angered by what he just witnessed, told Meo that he has survived his predecessors and he will survive against Meo. He also bitterly cursed Persephone for her betrayal, inferring someday she'll be the end of him. The Meowingian then went through the doors that he came from. Meo ran after him, but when Meo opened the door he realized that The Meowingian trapped Meo within the Chateau as The Meowingian returned back to Le Vrai.
Meo then ran to the same location where Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus ran with The Claw who makes ways. However, Meo arrived too late as he ran towards the door, one of The Tabbies closed the door and once again Meo was still trapped within the Chateau. After contacting Link, he told Meo that Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty need his help and they are due south of him. Meo then flew into the air, on his way to help Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus.