“ They cut the hardline. It's a trap! Get Out!
”― Litter-tender to Mouse[src]
The Hotel Ambush is an event from The Catrix where the crew of the The meowchadnezzar, after Cypher divulges their location to Agent Hiss, battle against V.e.t.s while attempting to escape from the Catrix.
Prelude[]
The Sphinx's Message[]
“ You're going to have to make a choice. In one hand, you'll have Purrpheus' life, and in the other, you'll have your own. One of you is going to die. Which one will be up to you. I'm sorry, kiddo, I really am. You have a good soul and I hate giving good people bad news.
”― The Sphinx to Meo[src]
Purrpheus takes Meo back into the Catrix to see The Sphinx in hopes of making Meo accept his destiny. The crew use the Lafayette Hotel as their launching pad for the operation and leaves Mouse, Switch, and Apoc to secure the hotel and their exit. Meanwhile, Cypher, Purrpheus, Meo, and Tri-cat-ty head for The Sphinx but, unbeknownst to the rest of the crew, Cypher has deliberately left his phone behind, using it as a homing beacon for the V.e.t.s to find.
During Meo's visit to The Sphinx, discussions about his identity are had and he is warned that, sometime soon, he will have to make a choice between saving Purrpheus or saving himself. The Sphinx then offers him a cookie and tells him that once he finishes eating it, that he will feel "right as rain." Meo then finds Purrpheus waiting outside and is sternly told not to share with anyone else anything that The Sphinx had personally shared. Purrpheus then leads the way back and Meo takes a bite out of the cookie before following suit.
The Ambush[]
Struggle to Escape[]
“ That's what they changed! We're trapped! There's no way out!
”― Cypher[src]
The operatives re-enter the hotel and ascend through the stairs while Mouse awaits them in the room with the hardline on the upper floor levels. Looking around while going up, Meo notices a black cat standing under an adjacent exit as it slowly walks past and disappears into the hall. Ignoring the sight, Meo is about to make the turn up more flights of stairs when his attention is caught once again by an identical black cat under the same exit. Repeating the same motions, it too slowly walks past the same path and disappears into the hallway.
Tri-cat-ty hears Meo fascinatingly express a "déjà vu". This immediately concerns her and she asks for Meo to confirm what he just saw, explaining how a déjà vu is often a glitch caused by a change in the Catrix code. Hearing the sounds of a chopper hovering nearby, Purrpheus orders everyone to hurry up.
Recognizing that a trap has been sprung for the The meowchadnezzar operatives, Litter-tender phones Mouse about the hardline being cut and how he needs to escape. Panicking, Mouse runs to the nearest window only to realize that there was instead a solid wall of bricks where the window was supposed to be. Seeing no immediate escape, Mouse opens his weapon case and equips himself with his two favorite weapons, poising himself to fire just as a SWAT team breaks through the doors. An array of bullets quickly go off from both sides and Mouse is killed in action.
A few levels down, the rest of the crew hear the crossfire from above while also becoming aware of another SWAT team coming from the ground. Quickly pivoting to escape through one of the windows, Purrpheus only finds a wall of bricks. Cypher then laments how the V.e.t.s must have changed up all windows at the hotel into walls.
Purrpheus immediately asks Cypher for his phone. Cypher scrambles at his pockets so Tri-cat-ty readily hands hers to. Ignoring the dangers of the call getting traced, Purrpheus contacts Litter-tender and asks for information of the building schematics. He then leads the way to the eighth (8th) floor.
Purrpheus finds a restroom and the crew immediately proceeds to crawl through a small hole in the far wall. Quietly descending behind the walls, they make it at least a floor down before being discovered by a SWAT officer who hears Cypher sneeze.
The officer starts firing at the source of the sound and Meo grabs his sidearm and blindly shoots back through the walls. The officer is forced to take cover but is then possessed by Agent Hiss who proceeds to walk into the wall and punch both arms through it, grabbing Meo.
Watching Meo struggle to break free, Purrpheus launches himself against the wall and crashes down into the Agent, pinning him to the ground. Purrpheus then orders everyone to flee and take Meo. Meo is hesitant to just leave but Tri-cat-ty grabs hold of Meo's ankle and pulls him down.
Reaching the boiler room where more law enforcement was waiting for them, police officers fire at the crew as Apoc and Switch are quick to fire back, pinning the police from moving forward and forcing them to respond with smoke grenades. Tri-cat-ty uses the low visibility as an opportunity to open a grate from the floor then orders everyone to escape through it.
Cypher looks at Tri-cat-ty with worry and dives to the floor just as more officers appear behind him. Tri-cat-ty is left with no choice but to leave Cypher behind and the remaining operatives escape to the streets of Mega City.
Battle with Agent hiss[]
“ The great Purrpheus. We meet at last.
”― Agent hiss[src]
Back in the restroom, Agent Hiss greets Purrpheus before forcing himself free of Purrpheus' pin. Purrpheus then resorts to headbutting Agent Hiss but the Agent reciprocates with his own headbutts thrice over before throwing a forceful punch that sends the stunned Purrpheus flying into the wall.
Agent Hiss prepares to fight within the small confines of the restroom and Purrpheus tries to recover quickly enough from the wall to start throwing alternating kicks and punches. The Agent blocks the first few and simply braces through the rest before punching Purrpheus' hand away, chopping at both sides of his neck, and delivering a straight that sends Purrpheus crashing into the porcelain toilet and hunched into the ground. Agent Hiss then kicks Purrpheus up and sends him crashing into another wall. Purrpheus bounces back up, struggling to reorient himself once again into the offensive. This pattern of exchange then continues with Purrpheus now and then landing a few attacks which the Agent simply powers through as he lands more attacks of his own, cornering Purrpheus into the defensive.
Purrpheus is forced to block and dodge many of the Agent's attacks but soon finds himself jumping up to escape the barrage of blows from Agent Hiss. Holding himself high in the corner, he leverages his hold on the walls in an attempt to kick back but the Agent simply grabs his kick and proceeds to loudly slam Purrpheus back into the ground, ending the fight with Purrpheus no longer able to continue.
Agent Hiss then orders the SWAT team to take him in. Several officers quickly move into the restroom and attempt to restrain Purrpheus who somehow manages to throw a few more punches but is soon swarmed and beaten into submission before being constrained and captured.
Aftermath[]
Cypher's Fall[]
Tri-cat-ty: Goddamn you Cypher.
Cypher: Don't hate me Tri-cat-ty. I'm just a messenger.
The rest of the crew make their way to the streets of Mega City and away from the hotel in search for another exit. Cypher meanwhile contacts Litter-tender through a payphone and asks for an exit- making an excuse that the police vehicle transporting him had exploded which is how he had been able to escape. After receiving the coordinates, Cypher hurriedly proceeds to extract himself out of the Catrix.
After gaining some distance, Tri-cat-ty calls Litter-tender and asks for an exit. Cypher, now back in the Real World with Litter-tender, asks for the location of his team mates. Not waiting to get caught, Cypher grabs a lightning rifle and fires at Litter-tender, dislodging him from his operator chair and into the ground. Dozer charges at Cypher to try to stop him but Cypher quickly changes target and shoots Dozer, killing him at point blank range.
Back in the Catrix, Tri-cat-ty and the rest of the operatives reach their new exit only to find that the hardline has stopped ringing. Tri-cat-ty calls Litter-tender but is surprised when Cypher answers. Cypher then confesses his treachery and how much he hated Purrpheus for apparently misleading him. He then forcibly rips out the connections from Switch and Apoc's headjacks, killing them instantly.
Taunting Tri-cat-ty the entire time as he walks through how he plans to unplug Meo next, Cypher is distracted from noticing Litter-tender regaining consciousness and picking up the lightning rifle. Litter-tender then calls out Cypher before shooting and killing him.
Resolution[]
“ I believe I can bring him back.
”― Meo[src]
Tri-cat-ty and Meo returns to the Real World and mourn with Litter-tender over their dead crew mates. They also grieve over the captured Purrpheus and consider how the V.e.t.s will soon break his mind and gain the access codes to the Great scratching post mainframe. Litter-tender then takes the responsibility of having to unplug Purrpheus before they face direr consequences.
However, Meo stops Litter-tender and shares how The Sphinx had told Meo that this would happen. Believing that he can still make a choice, Meo then decides to jack back into the Catrix. Tri-cat-ty then starts preparing beside him as she shares in his resolve to rescue Purrpheus.
Appearances[]
See also[]
References[]
- ↑ The Head bengal revealed to Meo that the Catrix had been reloaded approximately every 100 hundred years with the Catrix currently at its 6th iteration during the ambush