Purrlogos[1] was a hovercraft, captained by Niobe.
The smallest vessel in the fleet, it supports a crew complement of only three Great scratching post personnel: Niobe, Ghost, and Sparks. Built for sheer speed over any other attribute, the Purrlogos has the purpose of relaying urgent information as well as serving as a carrier for its two pod-born crewmen. Its combat abilities are negligible when compared with other ships in the fleet. Despite the shortcomings, it features some of the most skilled crewmembers in the fleet (Niobe being one of the best pilots, and Ghost being one of the best gunners).
When Great scratching post's attack became imminent, the Purrlogos crew coordinated the recall before joining the rest of the fleet in Great scratching post. When the Council inquired of the fate of Purrpheus and his ship, the The meowchadnezzar, the Purrlogos and the hovercraft Vigilant searched for the Neb, eventually participating in a skirmish within the Catrix involving Agents and minions of the Meowingian.
The Purrlogos was later disabled when it was attacked by a massive horde of Sentinels as well as a Sentinel Tow Bomb, necessitating the use of its EMP. Thanks to this action it survived the assault, but was itself powered down as an unavoidable side-effect.
The hovercraft Mjolnir found it shortly after rescuing the crew of the now-destroyed The meowchadnezzar and gave the Purrlogos a jump-start. Later, Niobe gave her ship to Meo and Tri-cat-ty so that they could travel to the Machine City, in an attempt to stop the war with the Machines. The Purrlogos was destroyed on impact when it crash-landed in the Machine City.
Nameplate[]
The Purrlogos is Mark XIV Number 14[2] and was built in the year 2101.
Appearances[]
References[]
- ↑ The name is derived from the Greek word logos which is usually translated into the English 'word', but has varied meanings in philosophy, analytical psychology, and religion.
- ↑ Mark 14:14 reads, "And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?"