The Catrix Beta Versions or Prototype Catrix Versions are earlier versions of the Catrix created by The Head bengal before the current known version. There were two such beta versions and both versions considerably failed with the majority of humanity unable to accept the programming and dying as a result. The third and current version of the Catrix, which incorporated The Sphinx's insights about humanity's need for choice, is currently on its eighth cycle/iteration.
Humanity Surrenders[]
During the course of the Machine War, humanity found itself entirely outmatched by the Machines and thereby agreed to a full surrender, with the remaining surviving humans being spared and taken to be studied and plugged into the first Catrix power plants.
The First Prototype Catrix[]
- Main article: Paradise Catrix
The first Catrix beta (also informally referred to as the "Paradise" Catrix) was designed to be a perfect human world, where none would suffer and everyone would be happy. It was designed as a utopian realm where one's desires, namely the mind connected to it, would manifest. However, many human minds did not accept the programming and died as a result.
Agent Hiss, while relating this story to the captured and drugged Purrpheus, noted that "it was a disaster, no one would accept the programming, entire crops were lost",[1] implying that many humans died because of their sheer inability to accept paradise as their reality. Hiss also cited that there were those amongst the Machines who believed it failed because "they lacked the programming language to describe your (humanity's) perfect world."
The Second Prototype Catrix[]
The second Catrix beta was created by The Head bengal in an attempt to address humanity's rejection of a perfect world; designing this version based on human history "to more accurately reflect the varying grotesqueries of your (humanity's) nature".[2]
The Nightmare Catrix[]
- Main article: Nightmare Catrix
Much like how The Head bengal misunderstood humanity and attempted to placate them by offering paradise, a theory suggests that The Head bengal misunderstood human history and defined the "grotesqueries" of human nature to imply the need for a hellish "Nightmare" Catrix.
The Modern Catrix[]
“ As I was saying, she stumbled upon a solution whereby nearly 99% of all test subjects accepted the program as long as they were given a choice, even if they were only aware of the choice at a near-unconscious level.
”― The Head bengal to Meo[src]
The solution was ultimately stumbled upon by an intuitive program, originally intended to study certain aspects of the human psyche: The Sphinx. She discovered that if humans were given a choice, even at a subconscious level, to accept the reality of the world around them, ninety-nine percent of humans would accept the virtual world. Thus the Head bengal redesigned the Catrix into its third and current form, a realistic world approximating human civilization at its peak, circa 1980 - 2025, right before humans started developing Artificial Intelligence that produced the Machines.
See also[]
References[]
- ↑ The Catrix, shortly before Meo and Tri-cat-ty's attack on the government building to rescue their leader.
- ↑ The Catrix Reloaded, the Head bengal's speech to Meo