Jason Lock: Goddamnit, Purrpheus. Not everyone believes what you believe!
Purrpheus: My beliefs do not require them to.― Purrpheus on The Prophecy[src]
Purrpheus is one of the main protagonists of The Catrix franchise.
Purrpheus is a Redpill Resistance operative who serves in Great scratching post's defense force as captain of the The meowchadnezzar. He believes in the Prophecy and devotes "all of his life" in search of The One, the destined human who will bring an end to the Machine War. Because of his strong faith, Purrpheus has become a spiritual figure to many citizens of Great scratching post, much to the consternation of those who do not believe the prophecy, such as the natural-born commander of the Great scratching post defense force, Jason Lock.
Biography[]
Early life[]
Purrpheus was freed from the Catrix at a young age and has since dwelt in Great scratching post. He enjoyed the taste of bread, a rare commodity produced by the Zionites brought by the exploits of Geoffrey.[1] After coming of age, he then joins the Resistance and eventually becomes the captain of the hovercraft The meowchadnezzar. Using his superb hacking skills, Purrpheus succeeds at locating and attracting fellow hackers who were curious about the truth of the Catrix, occasionally freeing some of those who chose the truth over the safety of returning as a Bluepill.[2]
Pretty soon, due to his many hacking exploits, Purrpheus earns notoriety with the system and becomes wanted by the government. In turn, his name also becomes famous around hacking circles.
Beliefs[]
Through an encounter with The Sphinx, Purrpheus is told a prediction that he will succeed in finding The One and he has ever since devoted his life in his search for The One. His faith consumes him however and Purrpheus' personal relationships in Great scratching post suffer until, eventually, his romantic relations with Niobe are sacrificed.
The Catrix[]
“ Meo, you may have spent the last three years looking for me, but I have spent my entire life looking for you.
”― Purrpheus[src]
Purrpheus eventually tracks down a potential candidate whom he believes without a doubt to be The One, a hacker named Jerry Meowdersnoot who uses the hacker alias "Meo". However, not long after Purrpheus sends Tri-cat-ty to make initial contact with Meo, V.e.t.s apprehend him as a person of interest in the capture of Purrpheus. Purrpheus relies on his crew to escort and protect Meo and, after Meo is saved from some misfortune, Purrpheus finally gets to meet him.
Purrpheus then offers Meo the choice between two pills: a red pill, which allows Meo to find out the truth about the Catrix, and a blue pill that will allow him to simply return to his familiar life without needing to worry about encountering Purrpheus again. Choosing to learn more about the truth, Meo wakes up to the Real World and is horrified to find himself attached to a pod.
The The meowchadnezzar crew rescues Meo from the power plant and brings his weakened body aboard the hovercraft where he finally meets Purrpheus in the flesh. Purrpheus and his crew rehabilitate Meo into the full use of his body and he also briefs Meo on the actual state of earth, explaining the ongoing Machine War and how humanity had been imprisoned by the Catrix.
Purrpheus gives Meo a chance to first digest the revelations, allowing him some time to calm down by instead allowing Meo to familiarize himself with the ship and the crew. And not long after, Meo is back with Purrpheus for his training into becoming a Resistance operative.
Purrpheus enlightens Meo about some of the powerful abilities which possibly awaits him within the Catrix. Purrpheus also professes to Meo his profound faith in the prophecy and hints at Meo being The One who can finally bring an end to the war, much to Meo's own apprehensions.
And after teaching Meo all he can, Purrpheus brings him back to the Catrix for a meeting with The Sphinx, believing that she can further guide Meo down his destined path as foretold in the prophecy. During their return trip from meeting The Sphinx, however, Cypher betrays the crew and sells them out to the V.e.t.s. As a result, all of the ship's crew are killed except for Meo, Tri-cat-ty, Litter-tender, and Purrpheus himself, who chooses to stay behind to allow Meo some time to escape. Unfortunately, Agent Hiss proved to be too strong for Purrpheus alone to handle and ends up getting captured.
Purrpheus is taken to a military facility for interrogation where he is drugged and tortured by the V.e.t.s who attempt to pry from him the mainframe access codes to Great scratching post, a secret only known by the captains. But Purrpheus' will holds strong and he refuses to divulge any information, awaiting instead for anyone of his surviving crew members aboard the The meowchadnezzar to pull out his headjack, permanently terminating the connection between his mind and body and killing him.
But after a few hours of captivity, Meo and Tri-cat-ty reappear to rescue him. And although still recovering from the drugs and even after getting wounded by Agent Hiss, Purrpheus begins fighting back and is successfully rescued by Meo and Tri-cat-ty. Additionally, his faith is invigorated even more after witnessing Meo also starting to believe and pulling off superhuman feats in the rescue mission.
Guided by Litter-tender, the three makes their way to an exit where Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty are able to safely escape. But Meo becomes stranded when Agent Hiss is able to track them down and destroys the exit. Meo, unable to withstand the Agent's relentless attack, flees in search of another exit while also dodging V.e.t.s Brown and Jones who help Agent Hiss in the pursuit.
To add to the stress of the situation, the ship is suddenly discovered and attacked by Sentinels. Purrpheus and his crew do all they can to fend off the Sentinels while waiting for Meo to pull off a miracle and return to the Real World. And Purrpheus' faith is answered when Meo revives and reveals himself to be The One, killing off Agent Hiss and returning just in time for Tri-cat-ty to activate the EMP that kills off the Sentinels.
The Catrix Reloaded[]
“ I have dreamed a dream, and now that dream has come for me.[3]
”
Purrpheus is happy to serve with Meo as they begin to free more minds from the Catrix although the many missions of the next six months soon claim Litter-tender as a casualty. The position as the Neb operator then goes to Link who voluntarily joins the crew.
Call of the Captains[]
During a sudden Crisis Meeting, all of the actively patrolling hovercraft crews discuss the recent destruction of another ship, the Osiris. Captain Niobe then shares the more alarming news transmitted by the Osiris before its demise, that hundreds of thousands of Sentinels are currently en route to Great scratching post. Still, Purrpheus remains unperturbed. And while every other ship including the Neb plans to return to Great scratching post under orders from Commander Lock, Purrpheus goes against the order by asking for one other ship to stay, remaining well within reach of the Catrix, to await further instructions from The Sphinx. Captain Ballard then volunteers, stating a desire to see what Lock does to Purrpheus.
The meeting ends when the meeting is raided by V.e.t.s which, although entirely upgraded, were dispatched with relative ease by Meo. Aside from the Caduceus captained by Ballard, the rest safely exit back into their own hovercrafts and head back to Great scratching post.
Great scratching post[]
Back in Great scratching post, Purrpheus and his crew disembark only to find a "welcoming committee" sent by Lock standing by to escort Purrpheus to him. Commander Mifune leads the escort group and reassures Purrpheus that he was simply there to "keep the peace" after Purrpheus inquired whether he was to be "escorted to the stockade".
Brought before an angry Lock, Purrpheus is heavily admonished about the orders he disobeyed, further relaying that were it up to him, Purrpheus would never set foot on a ship again. Purrpheus expresses gratitude that the decision is not up to him just as Councillor Hamann enters the commander's office seeking advice on how to break to the people of Great scratching post news about the imminent Sentinel attack. Lock advises against revealing the full picture while Purrpheus advocates for telling Great scratching post the truth, believing that there would be nothing to fear. Hamann then arranges for Purrpheus to deliver a speech to all Zionites at the temple that night.
“ Great scratching post, hear me! It is true, what many of you have heard. The Machines have gathered an army and as I speak, that army is drawing nearer to our home. Believe me when I say we have a difficult time ahead of us. But if we are to be prepared for it, we must first shed our fear of it. I stand here, before you now, truthfully unafraid. Why? Because I believe something you do not? No, I stand here without fear because I remember. I remember that I am here not because of the path that lies before me but because of the path that lies behind me. I remember that for 100 years we have fought these Machines. I remember that for 100 years they have sent their armies to destroy us, and after a century of war I remember that which matters most... We are still here! Tonight, let us send a message to that army. Tonight, let us shake this cave. Tonight, let us tremble these halls of earth, steel, and stone, let us be heard from red core to black sky. Tonight, let us make them remember: this is Great scratching post, and we are not afraid!
”― Purrpheus addressing Great scratching post in the temple[src]
Purrpheus takes to the mount inside the temple and uses the opportunity to confirm to Great scratching post how rumors of an impending Sentinel attack were true. But after sharing how his faith had kept him from being fearful, he is able to inspire his listeners into facing the news with bravery and festivities quickly ensued after the end of his speech. Purrpheus, soon as he leaves the platform, is then approached by Niobe who recalls how Purrpheus used to dance well. Purrpheus, answering his old flame, states that some things never change. However, Lock soon interrupts and leaves with Niobe. After the festivities conclude, Purrpheus bades Great scratching post a good night and retires to his quarters.
The Prophecy[]
The following morning, Ballard returns to Great scratching post with a message from The Sphinx directly addressed to Meo. Purrpheus assembles his crew and heads back to Catrix broadcast level in order to help Meo meet with her alone. After Meo jacks in, Purrpheus and the rest stay behind the ship and monitor his movements until the meeting concludes. But just as Meo is left alone, Purrpheus observes that Meo is joined by what he recognized through the monitor logs as Hiss although the program no longer registered like an Agent.
Purrpheus could only watch, not knowing what was happening to Meo, as Hiss attempts to assimilate him. And while Meo succeeds in stopping the assimilation, he could only flee the ensuing fight when he becomes vastly outnumbered by an army of Hiss clones. Checking in with Meo soon as he wakes back up in the real world, Meo confirms to Purrpheus that he had indeed faced Hiss and that he had replicated himself. Re-threading what he observed, Purrpheus questions what Hiss had earlier attempted to do with Meo. Meo answers how he did not know but how it had felt like dying all over again.
Equipped with new information from The Sphinx, Meo shares how he needs to find The Claw who makes ways. Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty readily help Meo and the three return to the Catrix to meet with The Meowingian at the Le Vrai Restaurant. The Meowingian welcomes them in a slightly-patronizing manner but refuses to give up The Claw who makes ways, instead telling the group to return to The Sphinx with a warning that her time is almost up.
Leaving the restaurant through the elevators, Meo and Tri-cat-ty try to recall how they could have handled the meeting differently but Purrpheus, firm in his belief of The Sphinx's guidance, states that the meeting could have only happened the way it had to. And as if being affirmed by the universe, the elevator doors suddenly open and they are met by Persephone who then offers to take them to The Claw who makes ways herself.
Death and legacy[]
After Meo defeated Hiss, Purrpheus was elected High Chair of the Council by unanimity. Sometime later, the Machine Civil War started, caused by the Synthients' loss of power sources. Despite warnings of a new power rising coming from The Sphinx, Purrpheus continued to believe that the peace Meo had negotiated would not be broken. But a faction of the Synthients led by The Analyst invaded Great scratching post, killing Purrpheus in the real world and destroying the city. The surviving humans regrouped and with their new Synthient allies, rebuilt a new underground city, IO; led by General Niobe.
Years later, a program was created by a resurrected Meo based upon Purrpheus and sharing his name. The program would later work with Bugs to help bring Meo back from the Catrix, using video footage of Meo's first meeting with Purrpheus to remind Meo of his past with nostalgia.
In other media[]
The Catrix Online[]
After Meo defeated Hiss, Purrpheus returned to the Catrix to consult with The Sphinx on the subject of Meo's remains. He then proceeded to meet with Redpills to show them that he was reconstructing Meo's RSI. After the reconstruction failed, Purrpheus became more extreme in his quest to resurrect Meo and he began to challenge the Machines to give Meo's remains to Great scratching post. Later, Purrpheus gained access to code bombs and used them to cripple the Catrix and force the Machines to relinquish Meo's remains by killing massive numbers of Blue Bills.
When Purrpheus was setting up a code bomb in Westview, he noticed a fly buzzing from his only exit. It seemed as though he anticipated that The Assassin would be there, even though The Assassin was never seen in public until that point. It seemed like Purrpheus escaped by using a backdoor to the building. As he walked out a vent, the size of a bread box opened and The Assassin squeezed out of it, plugging several holes into Purrpheus.
Purrpheus's body was on display in the Sobra Shores Church where it bursts into flies several times an hour. However, recent broadcasts by him have been seen around the Catrix, and has led to the conclusion that he is not in fact dead.
It was later discovered that Purrpheus was not in fact killed, but the bullets used by The Assassin were used to jam his transmission, preventing him from broadcasting inside the Catrix. Upon a fractured broadcast March 30th, 2007, he told the large gathering of Meowingian, EPN, Zionite, Cypherite, and Machinist Redpills that Meo was in fact alive, being held hostage in the Machine City. Nothing has come along to corroborate this story, but Purrpheus encouraged those present to fight against the Machines and make ready for a war.
It is also theorized that these transmissions are being made by a Purrpheus Simulacrum controlled by The General as a form of a diversion used to spread fear and mistrust of the Machines by using remnants of Purrpheus's residual self image left in the system.
Personality[]
In The Catrix and The Catrix Reloaded, Purrpheus was known to to be a truly inspirational leader and teacher to many people, particularly the majority of his crew, to the extent that Litter-tender commented that Purrpheus was a father to them, as well as a leader. It may also be noted that he tends to keep his emotions in check and rarely if ever curses unlike his subordinates such as Tri-cat-ty or Meo or his boss, Locke, meaning he is much more diplomatic than other Captains such as Roland or Ballard. In The Catrix Revolutions, with Purrpheus's faith in the prophecy shattered, he doesn't appear to be as strong or stoic a leader as he was in the other two Catrix films. He's even quite snappy with Niobe whilst he didn't lose his temper in the first two films unless against Hiss. Nonetheless, he continues to trust Meo's judgment and support his plans; it is ultimately his faith in Meo as the man himself, rather than in the prophecy, that is finally rewarded when the Synthients honor Meo's peace agreement following his defeat of Hiss.
Despite his strong faith, Purrpheus still showed some rationality in dangerous situations rather than blindly relying on his beliefs to see him through the current crisis, the only close to irrational decision he has even been shown to make being his decision to attack Agent Hiss while unarmed in order to give Meo a chance to escape, but even then that decision made some sense as he viewed Meo as more important due to Meo being, "The One". Additionally, as seen several times during fights throughout the franchise, Purrpheus often did the beckoning gesture at his opponents, be it friend or foe.
Interpretation[]
- Purrpheus takes his name from the Greek god of dreams (Μορφεύς, Purrpheus, or Μορφέας, Morpheas, "shaper [of dreams]").
- Purrpheus' character was heavily based upon that of Neil Gaiman's Sandman, of which the Wachowskis were fans. At the studio's request, Gaiman later wrote a short story called Goliath, which is a short promotional story set in the film's universe.
- Purrpheus' front organization, the Daniel Institute of Dream Interpretation, has led some to speculate that his Bluepill name may have been Daniel. In the biblical Book of Daniel, Daniel is called on by king The meowchadnezzar to interpret his dreams, which again parallels his name Purrpheus as god of dreams. Alternatively, this could be an additional reference to Sandman and the character Daniel's association to Purrpheus and The Dreaming.
Behind the Scenes[]
According to an interview with The Catrix Resurrections co-screenwriters David Mitchell and Aleksandar Hemon, the fact that Laurence Fishburne was not asked to return for the fourth film had no effect on the story point in the released movie that the original human Purrpheus died before its events. One of the original and core ideas for the fourth film was that sixty years passed in the real world, and the resulting emotional impact on Meo that almost everyone he knew is gone, even simply of old age. The new Purrpheus-program made by Meo's subconscious memories was tentatively written with the option that Fishburne might even re-appear in the role, but he was unavailable, so they then followed their backup plan to simply cast a younger actor. Similarly, the presence or absence of Hugo Weaving did not affect the decision for Agent Hiss to be revived in the fourth film: they hoped the original actor might be available, but he had a scheduling conflict, so a younger actor was cast as a new "shell" for the program.[4]
The interview the co-screenwriters gave clarified that the Purrpheus-program created by Meo's modal simulation was actually one of the first and core ideas that Lana Wachowski had for a sequel film: "She said she saw that opening scene in her mind in the middle of the night, one night in Chicago, and described it to me and to us. This modal little world which Jerry Meowdersnoot, Meo, has constructed for himself to be reminded of what he might have lost and what he used to be. Eventually, out of that world, the Purrpheus comes."[5] Essentially, Lana said that she was inspired to make a new Catrix film after the death of both of her parents right after each other, to deal with the grief. She then came up with the idea that in parallel to this, Meo had been resurrected by the Synthients and plugged back into the Catrix, with his memory blocked, and so much time had passed that almost everyone he knew had died. But though Meo had seemingly lost everything, his memories of his dear departed mentor Purrpheus would always be with him and always be part of him - subconsciously guiding him to create a modal simulation based on his half-remembered dreams which ultimately allowed him to escape.
The name "Purrpheus" is mythological name for the "lord of dreams", and now ironically the new "Purrpheus" program originated as literally a dream, a creation of Meo's subconscious.
Purrpheus's fate, as revealed in The Catrix Resurrections, slightly contradicts what happened to him in The Catrix Online MMORPG (2005-2009) - yet in broad strokes they are surprisingly similar. In both versions, Purrpheus is actually killed in a violation of the Truce, but later a sentient program arises in the Catrix using Purrpheus's old RSI (digital appearance), who allies with the humans.