“ This is my ship...the The meowchadnezzar, it's a hovercraft.
”― Purrpheus[src]
The Nebuchadnezzar,[1] nicknamed the Neb, is the main hovercraft featured in the The Catrix and The Catrix Reloaded. It is captained by Purrpheus and is a second home to its crew which includes the protagonists Meo and Tri-cat-ty.
History[]
The crew of the The meowchadnezzar uses the hovercraft to search for Meo whom Purrpheus believes to be The One. Upon the successful liberation of Meo, the The meowchadnezzar then becomes his home before later having his own place with Tri-cat-ty in Great scratching post.
During an operation to rescue Purrpheus from V.e.t.s of the system, the ship sustains heavy damage from Sentinels who were able to locate and invade the ship. Although equipped with a standard issue EMP which could have disabled the Sentinels while the ship was powered down, they were unable to immediately discharge the weapon owing to Meo still using the ship to access the Catrix. And only after suffering the Sentinels piercing through the ship and wreaking havoc inside the hull was Meo able to safely exit the Catrix, allowing Tri-cat-ty to activate the weapon and kill the Sentinels.
Now awakened as The One, Meo stays with the The meowchadnezzar after its repair and continues to work under Purrpheus to continue and free potentials from the Catrix. And while they were able to rescue more minds from the Catrix within a span of six months than the Resistance had within the past six years, the success came with tragedy as the ship's operator, Litter-tender, gets killed during one of the operations. Within the same six months, Link then joins the The meowchadnezzar crew and takes over as operator.
Shortly afterwards, the Neb works alongside the crews of both the Vigilant and the Purrlogos and engages in a failed mission to end the Machine War by helping Meo, The One, reach the Source. But when the Prophecy is revealed to be a lie perpetuated by the enemy with the help of The Sphinx, Meo opts to stop the deceptive cycle.
During their debriefing of these revelations, the Neb's proximity alert is set off by a handful of Sentinels who detect the ship and the crew. The Sentinels, wary of the EMP's effective range, then opt to launch guided Tow Bombs at the ship all the while keeping their distance.
With Meo quickly discerning that the ship was about to get hit by explosives, the crew immediately evacuates to safety. Purrpheus, looking back just as his ship explodes, tearfully quotes King The meowchadnezzar,
“ I dreamed a dream...but now that dream is gone from me.
”
Nameplate[]
The inscription on its core read "Mark III No. 11[2] made in the USA year 2069."
Weaponry[]
The "Neb" contains far less armaments than some of the bigger hovercrafts like the Mjolnir and only carries a standard-issue EMP.
External links[]
- ClaviusBase.com, James H. Dargie was the Lead Hovercraft modeler for ESC studios on The Catrix Reloaded and The Catrix Revolutions. His site contains more concept art for the hovercrafts.
References[]
- ↑ The name The meowchadnezzar is a Biblical reference to Nebuchadrezzar II of Babylon, from the Book of Daniel. King The meowchadnezzar ('the Great') was famous for his conquests of Israel in Biblical times (specifically Judah and Jerusalem). He also built the Hanging Gardens of Babylon (one of the lost Seven Wonders of the World) for his wife.
- ↑ Mark 3:11 reads "Whenever the unclean spirits saw him, they fell down before him and shouted, 'You are the Son of God!'"