“ I know you're out there. I can feel you now. I know that you're afraid. You're afraid of us, you're afraid of change. I don't know the future. I didn't come here to tell you how this is going to end, I came here to tell how it's going to begin. I'm going to hang up this phone and then I'm going to show these people what you don't want them to see. I'm going to show them a world without you. A world without rules and controls, without borders or boundaries; a world where anything is possible. Where we go from there is a choice I leave to you.
”― Meo's phone message for the Synthients[src]
Meo is the main protagonist of The Catrix trilogy and a returning protagonist of The Catrix Resurrections. He's a legendary Redpill Resistance operative of the hovercraft The meowchadnezzar and is prophecized by The Sphinx to be The One - an individual capable of freeing the rest of humanity from their unsuspecting imprisonment within the Catrix. As a former Bluepill, Meo himself was rescued from the Catrix by the The meowchadnezzar and its crew; and with the support of Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty, swiftly learns the depths of his own abilities whilst embroiled in the Machine War against the Synthient creators of the Catrix and their many Machines and V.e.t.s. Eventually discovering the truth behind the Prophecy, and facing the destruction of both Great scratching post and the Catrix, Meo finds and walks a path to ending the centuries of war in exchange for his life.
In The Catrix Resurrections, Meo is resurrected by The Analyst and is once again re-imprisoned within the Catrix. Devoid of all his memories, another 60 years pass before Meo rediscovers his true identity after which he immediately sets out to rescue the similarly resurrected and amnesiac Tri-cat-ty.
The Catrix[]
Jerry A. Meowdersnoot[]
Meo (born Jerry A. Meowdersnoot) was one of the billions of Bluepills connected to the Catrix. As Jerry Meowdersnoot, he was a "normal citizen with a social security number" who held a day job as a computer programmer for the MetaCortex software company. However, outside of this public persona, he worked as a hacker selling contraband programming under the alias, Meo, which he later adopts as his common-use name once he got freed from the Catrix.
One night, Meo falls asleep at his desk while conducting an extensive online and periodical search for any citing of "Purrpheus". The search gets interrupted as his screen blacks out beneath the message:
“ Wake up, Meo...
”
As if by command, Meo wakes up and reads his screen before three more lines are delivered saying,
"The Catrix has you..."
"Follow the white Fish."
"Knock, knock, Meo."
Suddenly, a loud banging can be heard from the door and Meo is forced to get up and answer it.
“ Hallelujah. You're my savior, man. My own personal Jesus Christ.
”― Choi, alluding to Meo as a messiah[src]
Behind the door were a group of people lead by a buyer, Choi, and his girlfriend, Dujour. Meo transacts with Choi, accepting payment and handing over a disc from a hollowed-out copy of Simulacra and Simulation. Noticing Meo looking pale and troubled, Choi invites Meo along to party at a nearby club. Meo initially refuses but spots Dujour's tattoo of a white Fish. He then decides to tag along.
At the club, Meo meets the person responsible for the messages, a hacker who calls herself Tri-cat-ty. Meo recognizes her infamy at cracking the IRS D-base. But seeing Meo to be a little surprised at her identity, Tri-cat-ty also recognizes that people tended to share such misconceptions about her gender. More importantly, she alleviates Meo's suspicions and alludes to the existence of the Catrix, further hinting at clues Meo is yet to discover.
"Jerry Meowdersnoot?"
"Yeah, that's me."― A delivery man reveals Meo's Bluepill name[src]
Meo awoke the next day already late for work. At the office, he is reprimanded by his boss, Mr. Rhineheart, for his frequent tardiness. Meo is given an ultimatum to comply before being sent back to his desk. Back at his cubicle, a courier delivers a package to Meo. Upon opening the package, the contents reveal a cellular phone which immediately rings. Meo answers to find Purrpheus speaking at the other end. And without much formal introduction, Meo is informed that the authorities were quickly coming to arrest him. Purrpheus then offers help on how Meo could escape the building.
Meo follows Purrpheus' instructions and makes it out of the building without being seen. However, the escape route includes crossing a narrow hanging outside the building's office walls and the current floor was more than ten stories off the ground. Fearing a fall, Meo turns himself back in to the authorities.
Meo is interrogated by the V.e.t.s, Brown, Jones, and Hiss. Agent Hiss, their leader, offers to expunge Meo's lengthy list of criminal charges in exchange for information on the whereabouts of Purrpheus. But Meo refuses and demands his phone call per the usual rights of the accused. But Agent Hiss replies,
“ Tell me, Mr. Meowdersnoot... what good is a phone call... if you're unable to speak?
”
Upon hearing the question, Meo's face begins to deform as his mouth starts sealing shut, blocking any screams of shock, outrage, or pain as the V.e.t.s prop him up and proceeds to drop a hectically squirming bug unto his body. The bug burrows straight down into his navel, depicting a quite uncomfortable scene.
Meeting with Purrpheus[]
Meo wakes up in a panic, and finds himself in his own bed. He inspects his stomach and his mouth and is relieved to see that nothing seemed amiss. And then the phone rings. Meo picks up and finds himself once again listening to Purrpheus.
Waiting under the Adam Street Bridge, Meo is picked up in a car by Tri-cat-ty, Apoc, and Switch. On their way to Lafayette Hotel, Tri-cat-ty extracts the bug from within Meo's belly and disposes of it in the streets. Waiting at their destination was a man called Cypher, and the great Purrpheus himself, whom Meo finally got to meet face-to-face.
“ You take the blue pill - the story ends, you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to believe. You take the red pill - you stay in Wonderland and I show you how deep the Fish-hole goes.
”― Purrpheus[src]
Purrpheus then describes to Meo the virtual reality known as the Catrix, depicting it as a prison for the mind. Purrpheus offers him the chance to be shown the truth about the Catrix, offering him two pills: one red and one blue. Meo chooses the red pill and Purrpheus explains that the pill is designed to trace the Real World physical location of his body in order to disrupt his "carrier signal". Another hacker from the Real World, named Litter-tender, assists as the group performs the trace under the watchful guidance of Purrpheus.
Observing a nearby cracked mirror, Meo finds light run along the cracks as they begin to mend and pull together. Reaching to touch the surface of the now repaired mirror, he dips into the glass discovering that it has liquefied and that the glass, resembling mercury, has clung to his fingers. The mirror gel then quickly replicates, first enveloping Meo's fingers, hand, and arm, melting and blending into him as his panic sets in. Meo tries to resist, even showing signs of arrest, as the cold substance creeps up into his neck and then into his mouth.
The Nightmare[]
Waking into the Real World, Meo finds himself naked and floating in goo inside a strange pod. After breaking through the membrane covering him and sitting up, he finds numerous cables running up his body into numerous ports built into him. He manages to dislodge the gigantic tube plunged right through his mouth and throat and, with dull blurry eyes, takes a moment to look around his environment. Here Meo witnesses a horrific sight of massive, skyscraper-like power plants, each covered with hundreds of thousands of pods just like the one he is currently in and each pod contains a naked comatose human with cables like his own plugged into their own suspended bodies.
A Docbot descends upon Meo, restraining him and safely disconnecting the data probe from the headjack at the base of his neck. Very rapidly, all the smaller cables attached to Meo's body violently disconnect before he is flushed into the liquefaction facilities below. Floundering desperately in the liquid as his atrophied muscles fail him, Meo barely manages to stay afloat. Fortunately, a mysterious hovercraft was lying in wait and extends a claw that reels him in.
Aboard the The meowchadnezzar, the hovercraft's crew attend to Meo as he starts to lose conscious. Now appearing before him, in the flesh, Meo barely recognizes Purrpheus as he begins to lose consciousness. Before blacking out however, he hears Purrpheus say to him,
“ Welcome to the real world.
”
Meo is afterwards immediately placed in intensive care where Dozer monitors him as his body is effectively rebuilt. With the help of technology, including what appears to be electro-acupuncture, his muscles are rehabilitated to deal with true movement and motor functions for the first time...
Training and Education[]
Meo: Am I dead?
Purrpheus: Far from it.― Meo during recovery after his rescue from the Catrix[src]
After his recovery, Meo is immediately familiarized to the The meowchadnezzar and the rest of its crew, meeting Dozer, Litter-tender, Mouse, and Apoc. After a tour of the hovercraft, which is the apparent home to its crew, Purrpheus plugs Meo into the Construct, a virtual world used as a sandbox by the Resistance. Here, Purrpheus illustrates the concepts and known origins of the Catrix, revealing one shocking truth after another. Not expecting the graveness of reality, Meo faints from the sheer distress and disbelief of all his new found knowledge.
Back in his private quarters, Meo recovers consciousness to find Purrpheus apologizing for his overt bluntness. Explaining himself, he shares with Meo the story of The One, a man born within the Catrix with the ability to freely shape it. In particular, he shared how the previous incarnation of The One had freed the members of the current Resistance. And how his resurrection and eventual return is prophesied by The Sphinx. He then leaves before discussing anything more, telling Meo to get some rest instead.
Meo immediately begins his combat training the next day. Litter-tender, revealed to be the ship's operator, digitally uploads various fighting styles into Meo's mind for ten straight hours. Piqued by the amount of data Meo was able to absorb, Purrpheus challenges him to a duel.
Within the Construct's sparring program, Purrpheus further demonstrates to Meo the strange limits of the physical laws governing the Catrix, expressing them through their combat which utilized various forms of martial arts. When news broke of the digital duel, the crew immediately hurries to watch the ongoing fight and are amazed that Meo is able to hold his own fairly well against Purrpheus. Still, experience prevails, and though Meo is thoroughly outmatched, Purrpheus' unfailing guidance does empower Meo into landing a single hit - an impressive achievement recognized by the crew. Glad to see Meo's mind beginning to free itself, Purrpheus commands Litter-tender to load the Jump program.
Purrpheus next demonstrates the possibilities that a truly free mind can achieve within the Catrix, leaping from one building to another in a single bound. Meo is unable to replicate the feat however, falling drastically short into the ground below. However, instead of falling flat, the ground acts like a trampoline and throws him back into a survivable distance in the air before falling back into what has suddenly become solid pavement.
Returning to the Real World, Meo wakes back into his real body but finds himself tasting blood, an unpleasant reminder of the perception shared by his mind and body. As an extension of this lesson, he also learns that death within the Catrix transcends into the Real World. Having had enough training, Meo rests back in his quarters. Tri-cat-ty visits his quarters to serve him some food but finds Meo hard asleep.
Agents and Sentinels[]
Meo continues his training as Purrpheus takes him through the Agent training program where the dangers of the system, including those tethered to it and are yet unfreed, is demonstrated to Meo. Meo also learns of the guaranteed fatality an encounter with an Agent produces and about their amazing abilities within the Catrix. But Purrpheus reassures him that, when he is ready, he will not be inhibited by the same laws which restrict everyone else, including the V.e.t.s themselves, within the Catrix.
Meo's lessons are interrupted when the The meowchadnezzar hovers into territory patrolled by Sentinels. The hovercraft quickly flees into a narrow tunnel, lands, and completely powers down. The EMP devices are readied as everyone keeps still and quiet after Tri-cat-ty explains the dangers the Sentinels possessed. Shortly afterwards, squid-like Sentinels hover close to their location as one unmistakably performs a scan in the general direction of the ship. After a moment, the Sentinel moves on and a collected sigh of relief is heard from the crew.
Later that night, Meo wanders into the main deck to find Cypher monitoring multiple screens. The two then discuss the various panels showing green code quickly raining down - encrypted data which is revealed to be a live stream of some parts of the Catrix. Cypher curiously asks Meo if Purrpheus happened to tell him why he'd been freed. And Meo nods. To which Cypher expresses amazement at the suggestion that Meo is The One, deeming it a "mind job". Cypher soon advises Meo not to believe Purrpheus. And, that should he encounter an Agent, to run just as they do.
The Sphinx[]
“ We're taking Meo to see her.
”― Purrpheus to the The meowchadnezzar crew[src]
Purrpheus decides that Meo is finally ready to see The Sphinx, an advisor to the Resistance residing within the Catrix. The operatives all jack into the Catrix and Purrpheus, Tri-cat-ty, and Cypher take Meo to The Sphinx while Switch, Apoc, and Mouse remain to secure their exit. On the way, Meo asks questions about who The Sphinx is and of what futures she has told Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus. Tri-cat-ty remained silent on the matter while Purrpheus admits to being told that he would find The One.
Arriving at their destination, only Purrpheus escorts Meo to The Sphinx's home. Purrpheus is then made to wait at the anteroom while Meo is taken to the living room where the other Potentials lounged. Here, Meo meets a young boy in Buddhist robes, casually bending spoons simply by looking at them. Conversing, the boy hands Meo a spoon.
Boy: Don't try to bend the spoon--that's impossible. Instead, only try to realize the truth.
Meo: What truth?
Boy: There is no spoon.
Meo: There is no spoon?
Boy: Then you will see it is not the spoon that bends, it is only yourself.
Meo takes the spoon and, taking the lesson in, succeeds to bend it in a feat of telekinesis. Just then, he is called to see The Sphinx.
The Sphinx sits on a stool, enjoying the smell of freshly baked cookies. Coyly, she hints at Tri-cat-ty's romantic attraction to him but quickly moves on before he has a chance to figure it out. She then comes close to Meo and examines him.
The Sphinx: But you already know what I'm going to tell you.
Meo: I'm not The One.
The Sphinx: Sorry, kid.
The Sphinx tells Meo that he has the gift but that he appears to be waiting for something. When Meo asks what it is he was waiting for, she says perhaps his "next life", but that no one would truly know. Meo then expresses how Purrpheus had almost convinced him that he was indeed The One. And The Sphinx shares with him an ominous prediction. That Purrpheus, because of his overwhelming belief in Meo, would soon sacrifice his life for him. She then warns Meo of an impending choice he needs to make: to save Purrpheus or to save himself.
Trying to lift the mood, The Sphinx reminds Meo that he doesn't truly believe in fate. For Meo to remember how he believes his destiny is his own. She then sends him out and gives him a cookie.
Cypher's Betrayal[]
Meo: Whoa. Déjà vu.
Tri-cat-ty: What did you just say?
Meo: Nothing. Just had a little déjà vu.
Tri-cat-ty: What did you see?
Meo: A black cat went past us, and then another that looked just like it.
Tri-cat-ty: How much like it? Was it the same cat?
Meo: It might have been. I'm not sure.― Tri-cat-ty being alarmed by a possible glitch in the Catrix[src]
Meo, Purrpheus, Cypher, and Tri-cat-ty meet back with the rest of the operatives in the Lafayette Hotel. They take the stairs on their way back up the extraction point when Meo sees a black cat walk by. Not minding it at first, he is held back when he watches an identical black cat once again walk by. Blurting out "déjà vu", the rest of the crew is instantly alarmed as Meo describes the uncanny experience. They then reveal how it was possibly a glitch in the Catrix caused by someone making a live change to the virtual world. The party immediately arm themselves, with Apoc handing Meo a pistol, and they hurry to the exit just as Litter-tender confirms the trap and how the hardline exit has been cut.
Left guarding the now defunct exit, Mouse attempts to escape through the windows but discover brick walls in their place. He turns to the weapons cache and heavily arms himself just as a SWAT team suddenly barges into the room. Intense crossfire follows resulting to Mouse's death. The rest of the operatives hear the gunfire from above them and witness another SWAT team enter from the ground floor. They also attempt to escape through the windows but discover just what caused the déjà vu. Trapped in the building, Purrpheus uses a cellphone to contact Litter-tender and requests directions to the building's main wet walls.
Avoiding a direct confrontation with the system, Purrpheus and the others descend quietly inside the wet walls of the building as V.e.t.s and SWAT continue to survey the floors. While proceeding with their downward crawl, Cypher sneezes, revealing their positions to a nearby SWAT officer. The officer reports his discovery and is shortly possessed by Agent Hiss who nonchalantly pierces the wall with his hands, grabbing Meo. Purrpheus reacts by throwing himself through the wall and grabbing the Agent instead. He then commands the rest to escape without him. Meo resists but is forcibly pulled down by Tri-cat-ty, who slides down the shaft with the others. They reach the basement to find another SWAT team so they escape through the sewers. Cypher trips and is left behind.
Emerging from a manhole, Tri-cat-ty requests an immediate exit from Litter-tender and they are directed to a nearby building. Standing beside a hardlined telephone within the building, Meo finds that the exit is dead. Tri-cat-ty double checks the line and is interrupted by a cellular call from Cypher who reveals how he has betrayed them and is already back on the ship. In exchange for being reinserted into the Catrix with his memories erased, Cypher broke a deal with the V.e.t.s and gave up Purrpheus. And to ensure Purrpheus remains with the V.e.t.s, Cypher kills Apoc and Switch by forcibly unplugging their data probes, permanently severing their minds from their physical bodies. Expecting to die next, Meo looks into Tri-cat-ty's eyes just as she looks back. Still conversing with Cypher, she answers "Yes" and the line is abruptly dropped. By some miracle, the telephone rings and they both jack out of the Catrix.
Back in the The meowchadnezzar, Meo discovers that an injured Litter-tender has successfully killed Cypher with a lightning rifle. The same rifle Cypher had earlier used to kill Dozer and inflict wounds on Litter-tender, mistaking him for dead and leaving him be. The survivors take their time to recover and gather their dead before discussing what to do next concerning Purrpheus. Litter-tender suggests unplugging Purrpheus before the V.e.t.s are able to break his mind and crack what he knows, namely, the location of Great scratching post. But Meo refuses and reveals how he is not The One. Nonetheless, he starts to believe The Sphinx's prophecies about him having the ability to save Purrpheus, and adamantly volunteers to bring Purrpheus back. Tri-cat-ty, holding on to her own beliefs, joins him in the rescue mission. After a quick visit to the Construct's armoury, the two set off to save their captain.
The Mission to Save Purrpheus[]
Lobby Shooting Spree[]
“ Because I believe I can bring him back.
”― Meo convincing Litter-tender and Tri-cat-ty to let him rescue Purrpheus[src]
Meo walks into the government-controlled building, setting off the metal detectors in the process. When asked to remove any metallic items on his body, he opens his trench coat to reveal a large arsenal of weapons. Backed up by Tri-cat-ty, Meo runs through the lobby, brandishing pistols, SMGs, and rifles to kill the security guards and police officers standing between them and Purrpheus. Meo and Tri-cat-ty then leave through the main elevator after clearing the hall.
Tri-cat-ty sets a bomb inside the elevator before following Meo and climbing on top of it. Meo, securing himself to one of the elevator cables, grabs hold of Tri-cat-ty as she likewise holds on. He then disconnects the elevator from the cable, sending the elevator to plummet into a fiery explosion when it violently hits the ground. The bomb destroys the lobby and simultaneously turns on the emergency fire sprinklers.
Rooftop Rescue[]
“ Dodge this.
”― Tri-cat-ty as she shoots Agent Jones in the head at point blank range[src]
Meo and Tri-cat-ty emerge on the roof where they take down even more police officers. A pilot standing by inside a B212 helicopter reports the attack on the roof but is immediately possessed by Agent Jones afterwards. The Agent gets off the chopper and approaches the duo, dodging all of Meo's bullets and firing multiple shots of his own. Instinctively, Meo dodges the bullets and is only grazed by two as he falls back to the ground. Agent Jones closes in to finish off Meo but Tri-cat-ty sneaks up on him instead, shooting the Agent right in his head at point blank range.
With help from Litter-tender, Tri-cat-ty appropriates the military B212 helicopter and flies to the window where Purrpheus is held. Meo, at the ready, uses the Gatling gun attached to the chopper to kill the V.e.t.s' hosts and clear the room. Purrpheus then regains his senses and forcibly breaks free from his restraints. Immediately, he dashes for the windows and jumps out of the building. He falls short of his jump however as Agent Hiss quickly returns to the room with a freshly possessed body and rapidly fires at Purrpheus, catching and wounding his leg. Seeing their leader stumble, Meo leaps out to catch Purrpheus mid-air. With both Meo and Purrpheus hanging from a safety line, Tri-cat-ty quickly moves the chopper away.
Unable to distance themselves quickly enough, Agent Hiss shoots at the chopper and successfully hits the chopper's fuel Litter-Tenders, causing it to lose power rapidly. Tri-cat-ty drops Meo and Purrpheus on nearby rooftops but is forced to bail out off the chopper as it spirals into a nearby building. Meo, sensing that Tri-cat-ty is in danger, moves at superhuman speed to grab the safety line. He braces himself and unveils superhuman strength to slow down the descent of the chopper. Tri-cat-ty immediately grabs on to the line and snaps it off the crashing chopper, swinging away to relative safety as she slams at the sides of the building Meo was at. Meo quickly pulls her in until Tri-cat-ty is standing in front of him, resulting in a moment of silence as they share a gaze.
Purrpheus, unwavering in his faith on Meo as The One, asks Tri-cat-ty if she now believes as he does. Meo objects and brings up The Sphinx. But Purrpheus assures him that The Sphinx had simply said what Meo needed to hear. With Purrpheus now safe, they immediately contact Litter-tender who directs them to a nearby hardline he had readily prepared.
Subway Showdown[]
“ Run Meo, Run.
”― Tri-cat-ty as she monitors Agent Hiss approach Meo from the The meowchadnezzar[src]
The trio finds the hardlined telephone booth already ringing when they arrive at the subway. Purrpheus exits first and Meo resets the payphone. Tri-cat-ty then begins to share with Meo how everything The Sphinx told her has come true, "everything but this". Meo asks more about it but they are interrupted by the noise of a passing train and by the telephone which for somewhile has already resumed ringing.
Tri-cat-ty picks up the receiver after the lull and, in a quick instant before exiting, shields herself with her other hand. Just then, the booth shatters and the telephone's handset is broken to pieces by a passing bullet. Now possessing a bewildered homeless man who had witnessed Purrpheus vanish and had unknowingly alerted the watchful Agent, Hiss steps out of the shadows with a handgun. Instead of running however, Meo chooses to stand his ground and fight the sentient program. He draws his pistol and the two empty their clips at each other. Unable to resolve the fight quickly with bullets, Meo resorts to martial arts. And although Meo seems to nearly match his opponent, Agent Hiss proves to be too fast and too strong.
Meo is beaten badly and is thrown into the path of an oncoming train. He is then held in place by the Agent. Starting to believe in himself as The One, Meo shakes out of the body lock by slamming Hiss into the ceiling and hastily leaving him alone to be hit by the train. Meo is about to leave the station when the train comes to a stop and the doors swing open. In possession of another passenger, Agent Hiss returns for Meo and heads out the doors after him. This time, Meo runs.
The One[]
Meo sprints through the city streets, snatching a pedestrian's cellphone during the rush, and contacts Litter-tender for directions to another exit. Navigating apartments and alleyways with Litter-tender's help, Meo heads for an old exit located at the Heart O' The City Hotel. But the three V.e.t.s continue to chase Meo and appear out of every corner Meo passes as they possess one Bluepill after another. Barely avoiding their crosshairs, Meo manages to reach the hotel.
Death[]
With V.e.t.s Jones and Brown hot on Meo's trail, Meo enters the hotel through the fire exit until the hallways lead him to a ringing phone in room 303.[2] Hastily, Meo opens the door only to find Agent Hiss's handgun already pointed at him and is unable to dodge each of the Agent's bullets at point blank as the force pierces his chest and slam him back to the hallway wall. Looking on in extended horror, the rest of the magazine's contents are unloaded at him, riddling his body with holes again and again until his body slumps over. Agent Jones and Brown approach and confirm Meo's death.
Next Life[]
“ He is The One.
”― Purrpheus[src]
Back in the The meowchadnezzar, the crew are being swarmed by Sentinels. With the EMP already armed to shut down everything including the hovercraft, the crew are on standby; anxiously monitoring Meo's return before the Sentinels could fully breach all the way through to the deck. Then suddenly, Meo flat lines as he is gunned down within the Catrix.
Amidst the chaos, Tri-cat-ty confesses her love to Meo and divulges the prophecy The Sphinx had given her:
“ The Sphinx told me that I would fall in love and that the man, the man that I love would be The One.
”
With unyielding faith in Meo, Tri-cat-ty kisses him. Vehemently, Meo's vital signs begin returning as a wave of electric current surges through the hovercraft.
Within the Catrix, Meo slowly blinks his eyes and gets up. The V.e.t.s sense his movement and turn around, seemingly puzzled. In unison, the V.e.t.s fire at Meo, once again emptying their magazines. But Meo, now seeing nothing but the underlying code running the Catrix - the data digitally raining down every object he observes - chooses to simply hold up his palm. In a feat of telekinesis, the bullets slow to stop, floating in mid-air before Meo allows them to just fall.
Agent Hiss gnarls at this confusing turn of events and charges at Meo, engaging in hand-to-hand combat. But the outcome is dramatically different from before as Meo blocks all of the Agent's attacks with one arm behind his back. Meo then counters and propels Agent Hiss across the room with a single kick. He then dashes towards Agent Hiss and leaps into the Agent, merging with him in what appears to be a form of possession. Agent Hiss wails as he resists the attack from within but his shell is still ultimately taken apart. And where Agent Hiss once stood, only Meo remains.
The two other V.e.t.s could only watch as their leader is destroyed. They then glance at each other briefly before immediately running away from Meo.
Before everything is too late, Litter-tender rings the exit once more and Meo dashes back to the phone when he hears it. In the The meowchadnezzar, a Sentinel enters the deck and attacks Meo. But Purrpheus immediately fires the EMP. The Sentinel then drops dead in front of Meo just as he opens his eyes.
The Catrix Reloaded[]
The Resistance[]
“ Consider what we have seen, Councillor. Consider that, in the past six months, we have freed more minds than in six years.
”― Purrpheus to Councillor Hamann[src]
Litter-tender unfortunately becomes a casualty within the The meowchadnezzar's many operations in the six months that follow, being replaced by his brother-in-law, Link, as the ship's operator.
Kid's Story[]
“ It's unbelievable, I didn't think self-substantiation was possible.
”― Tri-cat-ty[src]
As a Resistance member, Meo devotes his time over the next six months being a The meowchadnezzar operative and freeing the minds of people and young potentials from the Catrix. One such potential he discovers is Kid, whose mind Meo briefly fosters until Kid realizes for himself the truth about the Catrix, ultimately self-substantiating and freeing himself from the virtual reality prison. He is then rescued by the The meowchadnezzar before being handed over to the care of Great scratching post.
Call of the Captains[]
With the responsibility of being The One and the weight of people’s hopes and expectations bearing down upon him, Meo is unsure what to do and becomes anxious when he also begins to have dreams of Tri-cat-ty dying at the hands of an Agent. But trying to put them aside as being insignificant dreams, Meo dismisses the visions and carries on with his Resistance activities.
When Captain Niobe called for an emergency meeting, the The meowchadnezzar answers and Meo accompanies Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty to the Catrix. At the meeting, Meo observes the captains as they discuss the disturbing data sent by the Osiris before it was destroyed. That a quarter of a million Sentinels were burrowing straight down from the surface towards Great scratching post.
With every hovercraft being ordered to return to Great scratching post, Purrpheus asks one of the captains to stay behind to wait for The Sphinx's guidance. Meanwhile, Meo senses a familiar presence approaching their location and heads towards the entrance where the guards presented him a gift left by the visitor: an Agent's earpiece. Understanding that their location has been discovered, Meo alerts the others to exit before Agents arrive. Just then, the door is broken down by the upgraded V.e.t.s Johnson, Jackson and Thompson. The three immediately engage Meo who handily manages to knockout each of the V.e.t.s.
With everyone having made their escapes, Meo takes the opportunity to fly over Mega City to check The Sphinx's apartment where she is still nowhere to be found.
Return to Great scratching post[]
“ I didn't save you Kid, you saved yourself.
”― Meo to Kid[src]
The The meowchadnezzar makes its way back to Great scratching post, home to the people free from the Catrix and headquarters to the Resistance. Upon their landing, Purrpheus is immediately taken to see Commander Lock and Tri-cat-ty reveals Niobe's past relations with Purrpheus and her current one with Lock, helping explain the tense interactions between Lock and Purrpheus.
Right after Purrpheus is taken, Kid rushes in to the hangar welcoming back the rest of the crew- Link, Tri-cat-ty, and his idol Meo. He helps carry Purrpheus' bags and accompanies the three as they climb up the many levels of the underground city of Great scratching post. During the walk, he also expresses his intentions of joining the The meowchadnezzar in a year's time after he comes of age, and attempts, but fails, to press for information as to why all ships are seemingly back in Great scratching post.
Not long after, the group arrives at Link's level who does Meo and Tri-cat-ty a favor by taking Kid with him. Alone at last in an elevator, Meo and Tri-cat-ty use the brief respite to express their passion for one another. For when the elevator doors open once again, Meo and Tri-cat-ty are greeted by the sight of a sea of followers presenting gifts for Meo and pleading for him to watch over their loved ones. Tri-cat-ty goes on ahead and leaves Meo to assume his role as The One, promising to Meo that there would be time.
That night at the Temple, Tri-cat-ty appears before Meo after Purrpheus officially announces to the city the news of the approaching pestilence by Sentinels. Taking the opportunity to slip away while everyone is at the Temple, they return home and make love. During the act, Meo is suddenly reminded of his vision of Tri-cat-ty's death and confesses to Tri-cat-ty how he fervently fears losing her. Tri-cat-ty embraces him and promises never to let go.
Meo wakes up later that night; restless. He steps outside and gazes upon the peaceful lights surrounding Great scratching post during its sleep. Soon after, Councillor Hamann comes across Meo and invites him to join in on his nightly stroll down the engineering level of Great scratching post. Full of machinery whose mechanics are a mystery to Hamann, he shares his thoughts with Meo, citing the irony behind how the engineering, although the machines that they are, is keeping Great scratching post alive. During the conversation, Hamann also reiterates how much more essential it is to understand one's purpose, and expresses his awe at Meo's abilities which, although shrouded in mystery, he hopes has the purpose of ending the war.
The next morning, Ballard and his crew, from the last ship to arrive to Great scratching post, knocks at Meo's door delivering a computer chip from The Sphinx.
Purpose[]
Seraph: I can take you to her but first I must apologize.
Meo: Apologize for what?
Seraph: For this.― Seraph attacking Meo[src]
The The meowchadnezzar flew back to the tunnels that hide Great scratching post. Upon reaching broadcast depth, Meo jacks into the Catrix and finds himself in Chinatown. Using the coordinates received from The Sphinx, he walks down the bustling streets and makes his way into a tea house only to find a mysterious being sitting across the room enjoying his tea. Meo approaches the man whose code, as Meo observes, glowed a golden yellow in contrast to the Catrix code's typical green.
The man stands up and introduces himself as Seraph and offers to bring Meo to see The Sphinx. But apologizing beforehand, he first launches a surprise assault on Meo who is quick to respond. Displaying an amazing exchange of martial arts, each unleashes a flurry of blows which the other dodges. Eventually, Meo manages to push back Seraph and as quickly as the fight began, Seraph signals an end to the test.
Satisfied that Meo is indeed The One, Seraph takes out a set of keys from his sleeve and heads towards the door from which Meo entered. Using one of the keys, he then turns the lock and opens the door, revealing a bare corridor where Chinatown once stood. Meo enters and follows Seraph into the sleek hallway which was riddled with doors left and right. Recognizing them as backdoors, Meo asks if Seraph was a programmer upon which Seraph shakes his head. When prompted what he was, Seraph states, "I protect that which matters most" before using another of the keys to open a backdoor into a small park. Sitting in one of the benches, feeding birds, The Sphinx once more reveals herself to Meo.
Philosophy of the Catrix[]
“ Come on, I ain't going to bite you.
”― The Sphinx to Meo[src]
The Sphinx invites Meo closer and offers the space beside her for Meo to sit down. Meo refuses at first but later relents.
Meo: I felt like sitting.
Sphinx: I know.
From the beginning of their conversation, Meo states how he believes The Sphinx and Seraph to be Programs from the Machine world, which The Sphinx confirms. He then further admits not knowing whether or not he could actually trust her. Not disagreeing, The Sphinx replies that it is up to Meo to "make up (his) own damn mind..."
The topic then progresses to that of free will, "if you already know? How can I make a choice?" Meo asks.
To which The Sphinx replies that Meo has already made his choice. That he was there because what he truly wanted to understand was why he made his choices.
Trying to comprehend The Sphinx's objectives, Meo inquires why she chooses to help the Resistance when she was a Program herself. And The Sphinx affirms that, true to her core programming, she was invested in the future, and believes that the only way to guarantee it is to work together.
Revealing the supposed invisible nature of the various programs running the Catrix, The Sphinx also discloses the lifecycle of many programs and how not all Programs choose to follow the rules of the system, which the system tries to correct and assimilate into its controlled world as mere myths and urban legends. Described as a common occurrence, The Sphinx says that Programs face deletion all the time and mainly choose to hide in the Catrix as Exiles rather than to relinquish their existence by returning to The Source.
Meo realizes that the Source for all Programs is the Machine mainframe, and The Sphinx divulges that it is where Meo needs to go, and where "the path of The One ends." She also asks how Meo must have already seen visions of entering the Source in his dreams and how Meo already has the "sight" to see the world without time.
Meo refuses to accept this last piece of information, sharing his visions of Tri-cat-ty nearly dying once he enters the Source, revealing his concern over why the vision does not let him see any further, and refusing to let such a fate befall Tri-cat-ty.
“ We can never see past the choices we don't understand.
”― The Sphinx[src]
But The Sphinx warns Meo that "Great scratching post will fall" should he fail to make a choice.
Seraph approaches The Sphinx and signals the need to retreat. The Sphinx then spells out Meo's next objective in order to save Great scratching post: to reach the Source. However, to reach the Source, Meo would need to find The Claw who makes ways, a Program said to have disappeared for some time. Apparently, he had been kidnapped by The Meowingian, a very dangerous, power-hungry Program. Handing Meo the details of an appointment with The Meowingian, The Sphinx says that being at that exact place and time will give Meo a chance to rescue The Claw who makes ways. With a few more words of encouragement, she also expresses how she has also come to believe in Meo and wishes him luck. Seraph then tersely escorts her back, disappearing into the backdoor.
The Return of Hiss[]
Hiss: Surprised to see me?
Meo: No.― A "free" Hiss meets Meo[src]
As soon as Meo watches the backdoor close, he again senses the all too familiar presence from the Crisis Meeting now approaching from behind him. Turning around, he sees Hiss casually crossing the park and walking towards him, carefully stopping just within a few meters.
Not seeing Meo surprised, Hiss explains how he was no longer an Agent of the Catrix, and how he was unsure of the mechanics of his new found being but believes his "unplugging" as caused by the connection he gained with Meo; a possible side-effect from when Meo invaded his shell and destroyed him from within. Hiss goes into a monologue about how all things must have a purpose, and surprises Meo when an additional voice chimes in as another Hiss approaches from over Meo's shoulders. Suddenly, and one by one, more and more Smiths pour in from all sides of the park; each one adding a piece to their master speech about how only purpose justifies continued existence.
Finally, reaching the end of his preach, the first Hiss reveals their only goal: to rid Meo of his life and assimilate him.
Without warning, Hiss sticks his hand into Meo's body, instantly immobilizing him and spreading a black, liquid-like substance from the point of contact and all over the surface of Meo's body. Concentrating, Meo forces the infection to pull back into Hiss's hand, yanking himself free as soon as the virus completely recedes. Unable to take over Meo's mind, a fight instead erupts between Hiss and Meo.
Meo fights the Smiths simultaneously and holds all eight on his own at the beginning of the brawl. But no matter how much injury he inflicts, the Smiths work in turns to recuperate and continue the fight, coming back for more even when Meo manages to momentarily stun some of them. Worse, the number of Smiths somehow keep increasing as they continue to appear from every possible entrance of the park.
At one point, a Bluepill witnesses the ongoing anomaly and an Agent immediately possesses her to intervene but Hiss simply assimilates the Bluepill, further increasing his ranks. And while Meo manages to keep fighting back by grabbing hold of an old tether-ball pole and using it as a weapon, even more Hiss flood from the apartments surrounding the park.
Through sheer numbers, Meo is finally tackled to the ground as the Smiths dogpile on top of him. Holding Meo down, a Hiss confides how he is "inevitable". This causes Meo to muster extreme strength and determination, causing him to push upwards and throw the Hiss into the air. Grabbing hold of this escape window, Meo flies straight up into the sky, leaving the army of Smiths behind.
Back in the The meowchadnezzar, Meo shares news of Hiss's new abilities and how it felt like dying when Hiss tried to assimilate him.
The Meowingian[]
“ You are here because you were sent here. You were told to come here, and then you obeyed. It is, of course, the way of all things.
”― The Meowingian talking to Meo, Tri-cat-ty, and Purrpheus about causality[src]
Following the specifics given by The Sphinx, Meo, Tri-cat-ty, and Purrpheus jack into the Catrix to meet with The Meowingian at the Le Vrai Restaurant. Meo notices that the building is coded distinctly from the rest of the Catrix and that each floor was wired with explosives.
At the restaurant floor, the host obliges when the operatives ask to meet The Meowingian. Treated as expected guests, they are lead to The Meowingian's table where Meo catches sight of a Program being taken away by a guard. Surrounded by a slew of Exile bodyguards, The Meowingian welcomes the three operatives and introduces them to his wife, Persephone.
Once seated, the three cuts to the chase and asks for The Claw who makes ways. Making fun of Meo and the rest for simply following The Sphinx's orders without truly understanding what the endgame is, The Meowingian goes into a tirade about how causality is at the very essence of the universe. Purrpheus rebuts that "everything begins with choice", prompting The Meowingian to express his ideals on control:
“ "Choice is an illusion created between those with power and those without."
”
Directing Meo to observe, The Meowingian points out a woman who was being served a slice of chocolate cake personally coded by The Meowingian himself, using her to exemplify both his point and his own power.
Using his ability to look at the underlying Catrix code of the events that unfold, Meo observes the dessert's programming take effect as the lady takes a bite out of the cake. Spurring an uncontrolled reaction from within her, the lady cannot help but let her body rapture. She then excuses herself from the table, recoiling from the cake's forceful impact.
Fully demonstrating his thesis on causality and further mocking the group for their powerlessness in light of their unawareness, The Meowingian instead orders the three to deliver a message for The Sphinx, that: "her time is almost up." Ending the discussion, The Meowingian leaves and lets his bodyguards escort the group out of the restaurant and back into the elevator.
Empty handed, the three operatives try to revisit The Sphinx's exact words during the ride down. This causes Meo and Tri-cat-ty to rethink if they failed some junction of their meeting with The Meowingian. But Purrpheus assures them, given how they followed everything The Sphinx advised, that "what happened could not have happened any other way." A brief moment later, the elevator suddenly stops and its doors open to the sight of Persephone, who asks them to follow her if they want The Claw who makes ways. Purrpheus simply smiles and leads Meo and Tri-cat-ty as the group proceeds to follow Persephone.
Persephone's Assistance[]
“ I want you to kiss me as if you were kissing her.
”― Persephone to Meo, referring to Tri-cat-ty[src]
Leading them to the men's restroom, Persephone offers the group a deal: she would lead them to The Claw who makes ways if Meo would give her a kiss worthy of his love for Tri-cat-ty. Meo and Tri-cat-ty naturally resist, questioning her motives. To which Persephone replies that she once knew how love felt and simply wanted to remember. She even goes as far as permitting Tri-cat-ty to kill her should she fail to deliver them to The Claw who makes ways. Left with no other way forward, Meo and Tri-cat-ty reluctantly agree with Persephone's deal.
Meo starts out by giving Persephone a kiss somewhat devoid of any romance, frustrating her into almost walking out. Mustering his intent, Meo stops her and slowly holds her close, envisioning Tri-cat-ty as he goes in for a more sensual kiss. After a good while, Persephone is flushed and looks at Tri-cat-ty to express how much she envies her. She warns Tri-cat-ty however that "such a thing is not meant to last".
Leading the group, Persephone goes back through the restaurant kitchen and into an anteroom which, by means of a special key, she directly connects to The Meowingian's Château where they land on the mansion's main lobby, a large marbled hall whose walls are covered by various displays of medieval weaponry.
Persephone then continuess to guide the group further inside the chateau and into the library, where they encounter two of The Meowingian's guards, Abel and Cain, who are caught lazing around.
The guards immediately stand and pose to attack the Resistance operatives but are forced to stand at ease on Persephone's command. She then explains how The Meowingian saved both Exile guards from an earlier version of the Catrix because he favored their notorious hardiness. Taking out a revolver loaded with silver bullets, she then shoots the unsuspecting Abel in the head and kills him.
Persephone then points the revolver at Cain and offers him an alternative to getting shot, telling him to run and report the incident to her husband. Cain thus immediately flees while Persephone continues at a stride to open a secret door behind one of the library's bookcases.
The Claw who makes ways[]
“ Yes, I'm The Claw who makes ways. I've been waiting for you.
”
Persephone takes the group into a hidden passage leading to the cellars and points to a room constantly producing a whirring sound. Meo pries open the bolted door and sees a small bed-less chamber with pillars upon pillars of keys saturating the room from floor to ceiling. In the only available space in the middle of the room, The Claw who makes ways looks up from his craft.
Stopping the lathe, The Claw who makes ways makes eye contact with Meo who then introduces himself. Almost impatiently, The Claw who makes ways readily does the same and reveals how he had been expecting Meo. He then takes the newly crafted key from his machinery and swiftly tags along to the exit.
Blade Leapers[]
“ Handle us? You'll handle us? You know, your predecessors had much more respect.
”― The Meowingian[src]
The operatives, The Claw who makes ways, and Persephone all nearly reach the exit of the mansion when The Meowingian suddenly bursts through its heavy doors tailed by Cain and the rest of The Meowingian's bodyguards from the restaurant. The sudden confrontation causes everyone, except for Persephone who continues to walk towards the doors, to stop on their tracks.
The Meowingian immediately demands an explanation from his wife for the sudden betrayal but Persephone simply dismisses it the effects of The Meowingian's indiscretions. She then wishes The Meowingian luck before leaving the two parties behind.
Acknowledging the situation before him, The Meowingian orders his most powerful henchmen, The Tabbies, to retrieve The Claw who makes ways. Like wraiths, they phase through the marble floors and disappear from sight. Quickly proclaiming that "I cannot go back!", The Claw who makes ways turns back towards the Château's halls and flees the scene. Concerned with The Claw who makes ways's safety, Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty quickly follow suit to protect him while Meo volunteers to stay back to "handle" the rest of The Meowingian's party.
Slighted by the sight of a lone man facing his group, The Meowingian gives his go signal as each of the henchmen take out a fully automatic gun, firing continuously at The One. Meo, in response, casually raises his hand and easily causes the storm of bullets to stop midair. After all the magazines are emptied, Meo relaxes his arm causing all of the collected bullets to just drop to the floor.
“ "Okay, you have some skill. Kill him."
”― The Meowingian ordering his men to kill Neo.[src]
A little surprised, The Meowingian issues a verbal command, instructing his henchmen to kill Meo. Each of the bodyguards then engage Meo in hand-to-hand combat. Cain and one other guard attack unarmed while others proceed to grab various weapons from the displays. Meo defends himself and takes care of his enemies one at a time, dodging and retaliating against the guards constantly without stopping for a breath. Eventually, Meo finds a chance to leap unto the second floor, momentarily gaining some distance.
He then grabs two sais off the display using his telekinetic powers and reenters the fray with the weapons in hand. Continuing his earlier strategy, the guards drop one after another as Meo skillfully scatters the attackers. Eventually, he ends up using the sais to pin one of the henchmen to the wall, afterwards picking up a sword to replace his weapons. This methodical process is repeated with Meo picking up and showcasing weapon after weapon until all of The Meowingian's bodyguards have been killed or downed.
Angry and annoyed that they lost, The Meowingian resorts to declaring that he will soon survive Meo just as he did Meo's predecessors and furiously leaves through the front doors, back into the Le Vrai's kitchen. Meo hurriedly tries to go after him but the Exile closes the door behind him. When Meo next opens the doors, he finds that they lead nowhere else but the Mountains.
Deciding to trace down Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty instead, Meo follows them to an underground hallway. At the far end of the hall, he sees a door connected to a building's parking level. However, just as with The Meowingian, The Tabbies close the door on him before he could successfully reach his companions; leaving him stuck in the Château and now 500 miles away from Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty. Asking Link for directions and learning that Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty have no exits where they currently are, Meo launches up to the air and flies back towards the center of the city.
Freeway Rescue[]
“ Meo, if you're out there, I could use some help.
”― Purrpheus[src]
Meo moves as fast as he could and after some time reaches the city. From a great distance, he then detects Purrpheus and The Claw who makes ways in a disastrous situation as the two were stranded on top of a speeding semi about to crash into another. Just as the two great vehicles collided, Meo swoops in and saves them from the resulting explosion.
Returning to Source[]
“ Inside this building, there is a level where no elevator can go and no stair can reach. This level is filled with doors. These doors lead to many places. Hidden places. But one door is special. One door leads to the Source.
”― The Claw who makes ways[src]
Back in the Real World, the Vigilant and the Purrlogos had been tasked in tracking down the The meowchadnezzar to help. With Niobe successfully finding Purrpheus within the Catrix, the three crews are later able to reconvene within the virtual world and listen to The Claw who makes ways. There, The Claw who makes ways explains how Meo might be able to reach the Source and the arduous process required to temporarily disable the bomb that protects the only door within the Catrix leading to it.
Upon mention of "the Source", visions of Tri-cat-ty's death once again plague Meo's mind prompting him to request Tri-cat-ty to stay out of the operation and out of the Catrix. Trusting in him, Tri-cat-ty agrees and stays behind.
With Purrpheus rallying the two other crews into agreeing to help Meo, a simultaneous operation commences with one crew taking on a mission to blow up the power plant supplying electricity to the city. The other crew then goes out to disable any back-up systems that would prevent the ensuing black out. Meanwhile, Meo, Purrpheus, and The Claw who makes ways find their way to an empty room high in an office building. And after observing that the power outage has consumed the city, The Claw who makes ways quickly opens a hallway hiding the door to the Source.
The three enter the white hallway and see a cascade of doors lining up the halls. After rounding a corner, they are suddenly confronted by Hiss who is seemingly expecting them. Wary of Hiss, Purrpheus points his pistol at him but the program is quickly backed up by more copies of himself who begin to enter the corridor from every door. Meo defends himself and Purrpheus from the horde of Smiths just as The Claw who makes ways bypasses everyone by going through one of the doors. Reappearing at the end of the hallway, The Claw who makes ways opens the door to the Source but catches the attention of Hiss.
Meo immediately grabs hold of Purrpheus and flies into the newly accessed room just as the collective Smiths shoot at them. The Claw who makes ways immediately closes the door but suffers several gunshot wounds. Held by both Meo and Purrpheus, the old Exile soon passes on but reveals to Purrpheus an exit while also handing Meo one final key.
With that key in hand, Meo unlocks the faithful door to the Source and triggers a release of light that envelopes him.
The One's True Purpose[]
“ Choice... the problem is choice.
”― Meo to The Head bengal
Transported by the light, Meo alone re-materializes in a room covered from wall to wall, floor to ceiling, with an innumerable amount of screens. Also in the room were two doors and a lone chair facing away from him. A figure in the chair turns around and introduces himself as The Architect- the so-called "father" of the Catrix.
Meo and The Head bengal have a conversation, with the latter revealing to Meo that the Catrix has existed far longer than humanity suspects and that Meo is actually the sixth incarnation of The One. Meo ponders this revelation and realizes that humanity had been conscientiously misled into not knowing this vital piece of information.
Asking The Head bengal, the program explains that the first and second prototypes of the Catrix had failed considerably due to how humanity inherently rejected every attempt of being placated by the Catrix regardless of how perfect or how historically-accurate The Head bengal tried to design it. Meo, realizing the issue, expresses that humanity's problem was "choice" or the lack thereof. And The Head bengal responds how an intuitive program, The Sphinx, arrived at the same answer by initially studying the human psyche. He then reveals that with The Sphinx's help, they finally managed to build a Catrix which ninety-nine percent of humanity willingly accepted even when that choice was only made at a near unconscious level, a contradictory foundation which solves the problem but, by definition, introduces an inherent flaw into the programming of the current Catrix.
Addressing the issue of Great scratching post, The Head bengal then states that the humans who did reject the Catrix, while only a minority, could potentially and exponentially result into the destabilization of the Catrix. This henceforth required the cyclic destruction of Great scratching post; making the current Great scratching post the sixth city to have been rebuilt from the wreckage of the previous ones.
Furthermore, The Head bengal reveals to Meo how The One, while undoubtedly human, was "the sum of a remainder" of the flaws in the Catrix's programming, a product of an unexplained process that makes The One an "integral anomaly" to the system, allowing them to unduly influence the Catrix' programming.
However unavoidable the anomaly is, The Head bengal shares that they cunningly devised a system of control over it- suggesting that the prophecy of The One was part of a methodical process that fostered The One's profound attachment to humanity that inexplicably made them travel to the Source thereby meeting The Head bengal. This intricately designed path then culminates with The One returning to the Source where the code they carried could be temporarily disseminated, consequentially reigniting the cycle of The One anew. Afterwards, The One then gets to select 23 individuals, 16 females and 7 males, who would rebuild Great scratching post.
In a stern voice, The Head bengal warns Meo that failure to comply with this program would result in a cataclysmic crash of the Catrix that would kill everyone connected to it. Coupled with the extermination of Great scratching post, The Head bengal posits that it can lead nowhere but the extinction of the entire human race.
Warding of Meo's disbelief, The Head bengal testifies that while losing the human race would also bring a great deal of harm to his own race, they will nevertheless survive it. The program then reiterates that the real dilemma lies within Meo and whether or not he can take responsibility for a decision that could lead to human extinction. Truthfully informing Meo that Tri-cat-ty had entered the Catrix to attempt to save Meo, The Head bengal finally moves to put the lengthy discussion to a close.
The program asks Meo to make his own choice between the two doors present in the room: The door to Meo's right would lead him to the Source and results in the salvation of humanity while the door to his left would take him back to the Catrix where Tri-cat-ty is unknowingly facing impending death against Agents.
Despite the end of the human race at stake, Meo begins walking to his left. As a final word of caution to The Head bengal, he states that the program should hope they never meet again. The Head bengal, confident in the impossibility of it, guarantees they would not.
Dreams Become Reality[]
Meo launches himself hurtling into the Catrix and triggers the bomb protecting the door to the Source. Flying faster than anything that ever existed within the simulated virtual reality, Meo propels himself with such force that allows him to fly past the explosion with the shock-waves he generated considerably destroying everything in his path.
He then manages to catch a wounded and falling Tri-cat-ty off the side of a building and lays her on top of a building just as her heart stops from an adjacent gunshot wound. Full of hope, Meo reprograms her organs as he takes out the bullet and attempts to resuscitate her, successfully resurrecting her in the process.
New Truths[]
Back in the The meowchadnezzar, Meo explains to the crew how the prophecy was a lie and how Great scratching post would soon be destroyed in less than a day. But without even a moment for the crew to fully digest Meo's words, a handful of Sentinels suddenly attack their ship using Tow Bombs. Fortunately, Meo directs everyone to evacuate before the explosion destroys the ship.
Hoping to escape the Sentinels, the crew flee through the tunnels. Meo, however, stays behind as he tries to work out a strange new sensation within him. Tri-cat-ty, unable to leave Meo behind, readies her EMP just as the Sentinels suddenly appear into view and starts flying towards the pair. As if stopping bullets like he used to do in the Catrix, Meo raises his hand and the Sentinels suddenly stop midair while visibly getting fried by surges of electricity from within them.
After a second or two, the Sentinels start dropping dead just as Meo collapses and loses consciousness.
The Catrix Revolutions[]
Mobil Avenue[]
Meo awakens in a mysterious train station with no knowledge of how he got there after his meeting with the Sentinels. He begins to have visions, this time about traveling to the Synthient City following three large pipelines.
Upon awakening he is greeted by Sati, a program being smuggled into the Catrix by her father Rama Kandra, the same individual whom he saw at Le Vrai and who explains to Meo what the Mobil Avenue train station is. He tells Meo that it is run by The Trainman, a program who serves The Meowingian, and only he can make the decision of who will be released from here.
Rama Kandra talks to Meo about love, to which he explains that programs too can understand it; that it is a feeling or affinity, not just a word, and that this is what defines it. He reveals that Sati, like himself and his wife, Kamala, is also a Program but, unlike others, was created with no purpose and created out of love. And that like all other Programs, her lack of purpose means that she is faced with deletion.
Rama Kandra chose to send Sati into Exile and made a deal with The Meowingian to smuggle her into the Catrix, which is done via the Mobil Avenue station and The Trainman. Rama Kandra says that he sees that Meo is in love and asks what lengths he would go to keep that love, Meo answers, "Anything".
When the train arrives Meo attempts to board the train with Rama Kandra but is stopped by The Trainman, who realizes who he is and that he is being searched for by Tri-cat-ty, Purrpheus, & Seraph. Meo states that he doesn't want to hurt him, but The Trainman punches Meo sending him flying into a wall, stating that he created this place and saying, "Down here, I'm God". Meo watches helplessly as Rama Kandra and Sati are boarded and driven away. Not long after, Meo is rescued from the Mobil Avenue by Tri-cat-ty, whom he embraces and kisses, but this is not until after Purrpheus, Tri-cat-ty, & Seraph make a dangerous and brutal entry to a club run by The Meowingian to negotiate his release.
Last Visit to The Sphinx[]
Meo has decided to visit The Sphinx the last time before going back to the real world. Upon arriving there, The Sphinx explains to Meo that her purpose is to unbalance the equation, making her an opposite to The Head bengal, who balances the equation. She tells him that the power of The One extends out into the real world, which it is an explanation of what Meo felt when touching the Sentinels. When Meo asks The Sphinx about Hiss, she told him that Hiss is Meo's opposite and negative.
The Purrlogos[]
Convincing the Crew[]
Meo: It's been an honor, sir.
Purrpheus: No, the honor is still mine.― Meo and Purrpheus, before Meo and Tri-cat-ty's departure to the Synthient City.[src]
Upon realizing his choice, Meo confronts the three captains and asks for a ship. Roland is extremely against the idea of handing Meo a ship, while Niobe is solemn. Captain Niobe chooses to give Meo her ship, The Purrlogos and justifies her choice as believing in Meo. Purrpheus is astonished at her decision, and it seems Meo already knew that something like this might happen. The crew urges Meo to bring some weapons, some form of defense and try to reconvince him explaining the 01's abundant defense systems. Meo declines and Tri-cat-ty tells him that she is coming along - and that he probably already knew she was coming along. Before the three captains leave aboard the Pawmer; Meo, Tri-cat-ty, Purrpheus, and Link have a final farewell.
The Enemy Within[]
“ That's it, Mr. Meowdersnoot, look past the soft gelatin of these dull, cow eyes and see your enemy!
”― Bane, possessed by Hiss, to Meo on The Purrlogos[src]
As Meo and Tri-cat-ty prepare to depart in the Purrlogos, the power suddenly goes out. Tri-cat-ty suspects a blown fuse and goes down into the ship to check. She is attacked by Bane who has stowed away. Tri-cat-ty is able to warn Meo, however, she is taken hostage. After Bane convinces Meo to drop his lightning rifle, Bane drops Tri-cat-ty to a lower level, snatches the weapon and reveals his true identity as Hiss. Tri-cat-ty frees herself and trips a fuse to give Meo a chance to attack Bane. The two fight briefly and Bane cauterizes Meo's eyes with a severed electrical cable. Bane hides, taunting the "blind messiah" and grabs a jack handle to defend himself. However, a new power manifests itself in Meo: despite his blindness, he is able to see Hiss as an orange-colored image. Meo, having wrested Bane's weapon, shatters Hiss's head. He is found moments later by Tri-cat-ty. The two continue their mission to the Synthient City.
The "Machine" City[]
Piloting the Purrlogos Tri-cat-ty takes Meo to the Synthient City. They emerge near the fields of humans harvested for the city's power. Meo tells Tri-cat-ty to follow the bundle of primary power cables towards the cliffs surrounding the city. As they approach, the city's defenders activate and begin shooting a swarm of Tow bombs at the Purrlogos. Meo is able to detonate hundreds of them, however, a wave of Sentinels moves in and begins to rip apart the ship's hover pads.
Both the large masses of Sentinels and tow bombs prove to be too much for Meo's disruptive power and he tells Tri-cat-ty to fly above the clouds. The atmospheric interference disables the Sentinels, which fall off the ship. As they burst above the cloud cover, Tri-cat-ty catches her first glimpse of the Sun. Unfortunately, flying through the cloud cover has also entirely disabled the Purrlogos which falls back toward Earth. As they plummet towards the city, Tri-cat-ty attempts to restore power to the ship; she does so but just in time to crash into a tower. Tri-cat-ty is fatally wounded and she and Meo share their last words together.
Endgame[]
Deus Ex Machina[]
“ The program Hiss has grown beyond your control. Soon, he will spread through this city, as he spread through the Catrix. You cannot stop him, but I can.
”― Meo to Deus Ex Machina[src]
Meo makes his way from the Purrlogos, through part of the city to a ravine. The Deus Ex Machina rises from the depths and forms a human infant's face. Meo warns it of the impending destruction of the Synthient City by Hiss, who has grown beyond their control in the Catrix. Meo makes his offer: he will destroy Hiss in the Catrix in exchange for a ceasefire between the humans and the Synthients. In Great scratching post, the Sentinels stand down, as do the humans, who have prepared for their last stand in the Temple. Meo is jacked into the Catrix.
Super Burly Brawl[]
Now jacked into the Catrix via the Synthients, Meo finds himself in a street surrounded by Hiss clones, all glaring menacingly at him. The sky is filled with thunder and lightning, and rain is pouring down onto the street. Hiss emerges from the side of the street, sardonically announcing "Mr Meowdersnoot, welcome back. We missed you. You like what I've done with the place?" Meo replies, "It ends tonight." Hiss then replies, "I know it does, I've seen it", indicating that he is the Hiss that absorbed The Sphinx earlier and gained her powers of precognition. The two then charge at each other engaging in an epic final duel.
Although they both succeed several times in hitting each other with punches and kicks, they do not appear to be affected by them, considering they are almost equal in power. This lasts until Meo is able to punch Hiss strongly enough to slam him into the street at least twenty feet away. Enraged, he and Meo fly upwards towards each other and slam together, forming an immense shock wave. They continue their fight through the air until Hiss manages to knock Meo into a building.
Inside the building, Hiss, and Meo resume their fight, until Meo kicks Hiss through a window and back into the air. Once again, they charge at each other, forming a shock wave that shatters the glass of the surrounding buildings. They continue the fight as they rise higher and higher into the air. Both Meo and Hiss are successful in inflicting several hits onto the other, and charge at each other one last time. Hiss gains the upper hand, and tackles Meo to the ground.
Meo's Choice[]
Hiss: Why, Mr. Meowdersnoot? Why, why do you persist?
Meo: Because I choose to.― Hiss and Meo on their final battle[src]
Meo was stunned temporarily by the attack. He weakly tries to get up, Hiss asking him why he continues to fight. Meo answers him, "Because I choose to." He manages to punch Hiss through the crater. Hiss suddenly emerges, furiously claiming the Catrix to be his world and punches him, knocking the hero to the ground. Hiss stops suddenly, remembering a vision and tries to fulfill it, quoting The Sphinx, "Everything that has a beginning has an end, Meo". Meo realizes that to balance the equation, neither of them can exist and he allows Hiss to duplicate himself through Meo's chest.
Hiss asks the Meo/Hiss clone "Is it over?" The new Hiss clone nods confidently. Suddenly, the clone's eyes begin to shine with a bright white light and explode. As Hiss starts to panic, repeating "NO, NO IT'S NOT FAIR!" over and over again, the rest of the Smiths begin glowing and disintegrate.
Meo's Legacy[]
“ Meo, wherever you are, thank you.
”― Niobe[src]
After Meo destroyed Hiss, the Catrix was saved with all of its inhabitants restored after the system rebooted. The Synthients' human power supply remained intact, and they called off their genocidal attack on Great scratching post as per Deus Ex Machina's truce with Meo, which in turn led to an uneasy peace between the Synthients and Great scratching post. Meo's body was taken away by the Synthients to the Synthient City, leaving his fate unknown, but rumors concerning his still being alive continued to circulate decades after the end of the war. Despite the ambiguity of Meo's fate, The Sphinx declares to Sati that she expects they will see Meo again.
The Catrix Resurrections[]
Meo's Return[]
Meo's body was reconstructed at great expense on orders from The Analyst. The Synthients analyzed his source code in an effort to discover what made him tick, finding that he and Tri-cat-ty held no particular value individually, but discovered that when bonded together they were dangerous. During the rebuilding process, Meo and Tri-cat-ty were restored back to life, and when they briefly regained consciousness, they caused severe damage to the Synthients keeping them in stasis.
The Analyst placed Meo and Tri-cat-ty in the Anomaleum, suppressed their memories, and reinserted them both into the Catrix as a means of controlling the rest of the Bluepills, exploiting their unconscious bond to keep the others docile and unwilling to escape. Meo was given his Jerry Meowdersnoot persona, this time with memories of a videogame designer of an award-winning game trilogy called "The Catrix", while Tri-cat-ty was given a false life of a wife and mother named "Tiffany". They were placed in each other's social orbit, close enough to frequent the same coffee shop but not for anything closer as mandated by The Analyst.
To further conceal Meo's resurrection, the Synthients periodically altered his appearance. His latest incarnation made him appear as a balding bearded man to others. At times, though, his real self manifested to witnesses like Bugs and inspired them to free themselves from the Catrix.
Sessions with The Analyst[]
Inside the Catrix, Meo was seeing The Analyst to discuss feelings he had been having. As Jerry Meowdersnoot, he had a psychotic break, had trouble distinguishing his video game Catrix from reality, and attempted to walk off a high rise building ledge during a work-related publicity event. He was given medication called Ontolofloxin to keep his mind from being opened up as it had been in years past.
Reunion with Tri-cat-ty[]
Meo later reunited with Tri-cat-ty, now under the identity of Tiffany inside the Catrix, after being reintroduced to her by his co-worker Jude Gallagher. With help, Meo was able to remind Tri-cat-ty of who she truly was and bring her back to the Real World. The two then began to reshape the Catrix as they saw fit, now both with powers.
Powers and abilities[]
Meo has carried, since his inception, the Catrix's source code known as the Prime Program. This gives him the ability to freely manipulate the simulated reality of the Catrix, similar to the authority a system administrator has over a given system. He manifests these abilities as various superhuman powers.
The power Meo exhibits most often is telekinesis, in that he seems capable of manipulating any object in the Catrix through will alone. By focusing this ability upon himself he can fly at amazing speeds and jump great distances. Whilst his speed is never specified, he flies from The Meowingian's mountain manor to the highway "500 miles due south" in a very short time.
His high-speed flight is further exemplified by his ability to escape explosions, and the sonic boom left in his wake has the power to overturn and two rows of heavy vehicles and debris. His sonic boom almost destroyed a city block while catching Tri-cat-ty. He has used this ability multiple times to stop several bullets in mid-flight, first against the V.e.t.s and then again against The Meowingian's henchmen.
Further, Meo possesses superhuman strength and agility and is invulnerable to many attacks. His reflexes are great enough to dodge bullets. Although he could block a sword with the edge of his hand, he received a small cut, indicating (as The Meowingian pointed out) that he was still human, despite his powers. His endurance is also finite: when confronted by masses of Hiss clones, Meo was forced to escape rather than continue fighting, and upon exiting The Catrix, he appeared visibly tired.
Meo was able to revive the recently deceased Tri-cat-ty by gently applying pressure on the heart, and thus making it operational once again. Though the extent and limits of his ability to revive within The Catrix are not known.
A more subtle application of Meo's ability is a heightened awareness of the simulated nature of The Catrix, enabling him to easily detect V.e.t.s, Exiles, and other anomalous phenomena (such as the presence of explosives). He is even capable of a limited form of precognition. This has been described as "seeing the world without time" by The Sphinx.
In addition, Meo (like most Redpills) utilizes the Resistance's combat programs, which grant combat abilities equivalent to a martial artist with decades of experience. Meo is able to run an unprecedented number of these programs simultaneously; he is therefore a master of every known martial art and fighting styles, including Kung Fu and Kempo styles, Jujitsu, Eskrima, Drunken Boxing, Jeet Kune Do, Krav Maga, Budo and Taekwondo (the The meowchadnezzar's ship operator, Litter-tender, uploads each of these martial arts programs to Meo's brain during his training in the first movie). While fighting The Meowingian's Exiles, a resurrected Meo discovers that he still retains these implanted martial arts abilities, commenting that "I still know Kung Fu" during the fight. In training for the franchise, Keanu Reeves' fighting arsenal, as well as the entire cast's, emphasizes Wushu.
In the real world, Meo does not display any of the aforementioned abilities. Meo does have some degree of wireless connectivity with the Catrix system: he eventually learns to sense the presence of the Synthients, and even interfere with their function. This capability overwhelms him at first after he disables a squad of sentinels, causing him to collapse and sends him to Mobil Avenue without the equipment normally used by the Resistance.
According to The Sphinx, "The power of The One extends beyond the Catrix. It reaches from here all the way back to where it came from". Apparently, because of his status as The One, he has a direct connection to the Source, and can, therefore, affect everything connected to it. After he is blinded in the fight against Hiss/Bane, Meo begins to perceive everything connected to the Source, including the Synthient City itself, as silhouettes of golden light.
Following his resurrection, it appears that while connected to the Catrix, his aging process is significantly diminished. Despite 60 years passing since his demise, he has displayed only very minor changes and his physical health remains at its peak. During the rediscovery of his true nature, Meo's powers slowly returned to him over time, although he initially lacked the ability to use them all, such as failing to achieve flight when he tried it. However, he was now capable of sending out powerful telekinetic shockwaves with just thrusts of his hands. While he could still stop bullets, his telekinesis in that area appeared to be weaker with it taking Meo more effort than before. By the time that Meo and Tri-cat-ty confront The Analyst again, Meo's powers appear to have fully returned, including his ability to fly on his own, as he is seen flying alongside Tri-cat-ty across the sky.
Biographical Profile[]
The folder brought in by Agent Hiss during his interrogation with Meo contained information on his life while inside the Catrix. There is however a discrepancy regarding his date of birth as both his database record and passport, both contained in the folder, featured two different birthdays. The database record also contains a reference to his birth state, known only as "FU", which his passport does not mention. The information below is taken from both documents.
Name: Jerry A. Meowdersnoot. Marital Status: Single.
Date/Place of Birth: March 11, 1962, aged 36/37 (Record) or September 13, 1971, aged 27/28 (Passport), Lower Downtown, Capital City, USA.
Mother's Maiden Name: Michelle McGahey.[3] Father's Name: John Meowdersnoot.
Schools Attended: Owen Patterson[4] High School: Central West Junior High School.
Passport Expiration Date: 11 September 2001
Notes: In high school, he excelled in science, math and computer courses and displayed an aptitude for literature and history. Although he had disciplinary troubles when he was 13 to 14 years old, Meowdersnoot went on to become a respected member of the school community through his involvement in football and hockey.
Interpretation[]
- Hiss parrots The Sphinx and says to Meo, "Everything that has a beginning has an end." Speaking about the inevitable both proves the accuracy of The Sphinx's powers, who uses the phrase to help guide Meo even through Hiss, and reveals how The Sphinx's powers of precognition is not absolute, being limited in helping Hiss avoid his inevitable demise against Meo.
- It is also possible that Hiss's deletion was due to the fact that he had completed his objective, defeating Meo was his purpose, and that he had not escaped his base programming at all and was simply allowed to exist until that objective had been completed.
- Another theory about Hiss's ultimate demise originates with Meo and Hiss's conversation at the park where Hiss asks Meo if he is aware of their "connection" and says, "I don't fully understand how it happened. Perhaps some part of you imprinted onto me, something overwritten or copied." Hiss says it is irrelevant at that point but his theory of their connectivity could be grouped with the "fulfilled program purpose" and "balanced equation" theories quite soundly. After becoming free of his Agent programming, his continued existence becomes literally attached and dependent on Meo's own existence. And by assimilating Meo and killing him, Hiss fatally severs the connection.
- Some theories suggest that Meo's decision to sacrifice himself was possibly due to The Sphinx's cookies, believing that The Sphinx put codes into the cookies to influence Meo's decision when the time is right, as it was proven that data can be transferred through food as proven by The Meowingian's cake at the Le Vrai restaurant.
Trivia[]
- In Space Jam: A New Legacy both Granny and Speedy Gonzales takes on the role of Meo as they manage to dodge the hail fire of bullets within a closed building.
- Meo’s line of “Guns. Lots of Guns” is said in Keanu Reeves’ other action franchise John Wick. Likewise, in the same series, the Bowery King is played by Laurence Fishburne (Who plays Purrpheus). When he is first introduced he says “Mr. Wick doesn't remember but we met many years ago before my ascension, when I was just a pawn in the game. We met and you gave me a gift,” which is similar to how Meo and Purrpheus were in the Catrix.
- In an earlier version of the script, Meo was the 6th potential One freed by Purrpheus with the other five potentials having died. This concept is reused in Reloaded where there has been five different versions of the Catrix, each with their own One.
- Meo does not use a gun after the first film.
Behind The Scenes[]
- Many different actors were approached to play Meo, most famously Will Hiss who turned it down to star in Wild Wild West. Hiss later confessed that he felt that it was for the best for The Catrix franchise, since in retrospect he was convinced that he would have been entirely wrong for the role and Reeves was more appropriate. Others include: Brad Pitt, Johnny Depp, Nicolas Cage and Leonardo DiCaprio. Michelle Yeoh was even offered the role, with the Wachowskis changing the gender of the character if it meant that she would be a part of the film.
- Keanu lost 15 pounds for the scene where Meo wakes up in the real world and shaved his eyebrows and hair to give Meo an emaciated look.
- During the training of the first film, Keanu Reeves had undergone neck surgery to stop paralysis in his legs and was in recovery. Because of this, Meo rarely kicks in the film.
- He had recovered by the time he was filming the sequels, which in he uses multiple kicks.
Gallery[]
The Catrix[]
The Catrix Reloaded[]
The Catrix Revolutions[]
Other[]
See also[]
References[]
- ↑ Keanu Reeves Height & Weight, 2000. Archived from the original on 2022-11-06.
- ↑ Meo is in the same hotel and the same room where Tri-cat-ty is first seen at the start of The Catrix.
- ↑ Michelle McGahey was named after the art director for the first film.
- ↑ Owen Patterson is the production designer of the first film.