Tri-cat-ty: Meo, nobody's ever done anything like this.
Meo: That's why it's going to work.― On rescuing Purrpheus[src]
The rescue of Purrpheus was a rescue mission made by Meo and Tri-cat-ty to rescue Purrpheus from V.e.t.s Hiss, Jones, and Brown in the Catrix during the Machine War.
Prelude[]
The The meowchadnezzar operatives are ambushed at Lafayette Hotel, their previous base of operations, after Cypher betrays its location to Agent Hiss. As a result, Purrpheus is captured and only Meo and Tri-cat-ty survive to return to the Real World.
Agent Hiss's Desire[]
“ I hate this place. This zoo. This prison. This reality, whatever you want to call it, I can't stand it any longer. It's the smell, if there is such a thing. I feel saturated by it. I can taste your stink and every time I do, I fear that I've somehow been infected by it.
”― Agent hiss[src]
After capturing Purrpheus, V.e.t.s Hiss, Jones, and Brown take him to the near-top floor of a heavily guarded, twenty-story building where they connect him to a machine and inject him with truth serum. Agent Hiss also lectures Purrpheus about early versions of the Catrix that were designed to be a paradise, which humans universally refused to accept, and waxes philosophical about the nature of humanity being identical to a virus that systemically used up the planet's natural resources. Their goal in this was to break Purrpheus' will and get him to divulge the Great scratching post mainframe access codes, which would allow the V.e.t.s to enter Great scratching post and destroy the Resistance. However, Purrpheus did not break.
Frustrated with his resilience, Agent Hiss ordered the others to leave him alone with Purrpheus. He took off his earpiece and sunglasses and confided in Purrpheus his true feelings about the Catrix; he hated being trapped within it and felt that being forced to live among the humans was 'infecting' him. He made a personal, desperate appeal and threat to Purrpheus, to give him the Great scratching post access codes so he could enter Great scratching post and destroy the Resistance, as without them there would be no need for him with remain in the Catrix and he could be freed.
Purrpheus, suffocating and with his eyes already turning white, hears Agent Hiss but still wills himself to remain silent.
The Plan[]
“ I believe I can bring him back.
”― Meo[src]
While the interrogation is carried out by the V.e.t.s, Litter-tender monitors Purrpheus' physical body in the The meowchadnezzar. Seeing telltale signs that Purrpheus is suffering from torture, Litter-tender decides that Purrpheus must be unplugged before he eventually breaks and gives out information to the Machines.
Before Litter-tender can pull the plug however, Meo stops him and instead shares how this future was already imparted to him by The Sphinx. Meo then tells Litter-tender and Tri-cat-ty that he is going back to the Catrix to rescue Purrpheus, declaring how he believes he can still save their Captain. Tri-cat-ty likewise declares to join Meo and help alongside him.
Jacking into a construct, Meo asks Litter-tender for weapons and supplies which the operator readily loads into their sandbox. And after taking a Heckler & Koch MP5K from the firearms rack, Meo gives Tri-cat-ty a reassuring look that the mission will work.
The Mission[]
Lobby Shootout[]
The crew tracks down Purrpheus to a heavily secured building and Meo is the first to enter and goes through a security check, placing a zipped-up duffel bag on a scanner's conveyor belt and walking through a metal detector that immediately sounds off an alarm. One of the security guards approach Meo to do further inspections when Meo opens up his coat to reveal a variety of pistols and sub-machine guns attached to his body by belts, holsters, and slings. Looking up at Meo, the guard could only curse before Meo knocks him down with a palm strike.
Meo immediately unholsters two MP5k sub-machine guns and proceeds to shoot at three of the security guards, killing two on his left side and one on his right. One other guard quickly takes cover, hiding behind a nearby pillar and calling for backup.
Herself backing up Meo, Tri-cat-ty enters the building wielding a Micro Uzi sub-machine gun and empties her clip at the surviving security guard to neutralize him. She then discards the empty gun and picks up Meo's duffel bag and the pair walk down the lobby towards the elevators. Meo discards his own guns in favor of equipping dual M9 pistols from his waist.
Not even a few steps in, a unit of soldiers armed with M16 assault rifles and SPAS-12 shotguns enter the lobby from the sides of the elevators. They then aim their guns at Meo and Tri-cat-ty and order them to stop. The pair, briefly looking at each other, runs to opposite sides of the lobby. Tri-cat-ty drops the duffel bug and runs to the left of the guards while Meo runs to the right. This immediately starts a shootout.
Meo empties his pistols while shooting back and dashing and slamming to the wall. Quickly, he retreats back to a nearby heavy pillar and takes shelter from the gunfire being rained on him. He then takes out two Skorpion vz. 61 sub-machine guns and waits for a lull in the onslaught.
On the opposite side, Tri-cat-ty is quick to reach the walls while moving forwards toward the elevators, avoiding the curtain of fire from the enemy tactical forces by using the pillars as cover for her advance. Two soldiers suddenly reveal themselves in front of Tri-cat-ty and shoot their assault rifles at her. Tri-cat-ty, in turn, runs to the walls and on them, escaping the enemies' immediate line-of-fire by jumping off the wall and flipping in a cartwheel-like motion to land behind one of the pillars.
One of the soldiers nearing Tri-cat-ty reload and Tri-cat-ty quickly moves in from an angle that obscures herself from the other soldiers' views. She then kicks away his rifle followed immediately by a solid snap kick to the soldier's chest and a roundhouse to the neck that knocks the soldier out. She then quickly runs back for cover at the next column as the other soldiers resume their fire on her.
After detecting the slightest pause, Meo charges forward while firing full salvo. Immediately, he kills two of the three soldiers in his way. This sudden advancement attracts the attention of all the soldiers currently trained on Tri-cat-ty and they all begin shooting at Meo instead. Not missing the chance, Tri-cat-ty rushes forward to the back of one of the soldiers and kicks up his SPAS 12 pump-action shotgun spinning in the air before promptly taking it and firing it at the soldier's back. In a rapid follow through, she also shoots down the next soldier gunning for Meo. She then takes cover and heads back.
Five more soldiers are stationed at the last row of columns next to the elevators and they keep firing at Meo as he charges forward. Exhausting the ammunition for his sub-machine guns, Meo discards them without stopping his momentum, choosing to angle towards one of the fallen soldiers lying between him and the elevators instead. He then performs a cartwheel to dodge the enemies' continued stream of bullets while also using the chance to pick from the ground the dead soldier's M16 assault rifle.
Armed with the assault rifle, Meo continues to perform a one-handed cartwheel all the while firing with his other arm and killing three of the soldiers. After landing, he immediately hides behind a nearby pillar and takes the chance to pull out two Micro Uzis from his back before marching towards the remaining two shooters and holding them down with an alternating downpour of bullets and managing to kill one of the remaining shooters who mistimes his assault on Meo. Once again empty, Meo discards his guns just as the last soldier comes out and aims at Meo. With a quick reaction, he jumps at the final shooter and lands an aerial roundhouse kick to the soldier's face, knocking him out.
With all the soldiers down, Tri-cat-ty retrieves the duffel bag and the pair regroups to finally enter one of the elevators. As they go up to the roof, the elevator doors close on a ruined and seemingly lifeless lobby.
Elevator Detonator[]
“ There is no spoon.
”― Meo[src]
Tri-cat-ty unzips the bag and takes out a huge explosive device which she wires to the elevator floor. Meo meanwhile stops the elevator and opens the ceiling hatch to climb to the roof and clamp unto one end of the elevator cables. Meo and Tri-cat-ty then secure each other to it and Meo, before shooting the cable that detaches it from the elevator cart, recites that "there is no spoon". The solid metal box just plummets to the ground as one of the cables holding it steady is cut and it pulls the the remaining cable down with it, yanking Meo and Tri-cat-ty at the other end towards the roof. Just a moment later, a large explosion comes from the bottom of the elevator shaft and the explosion engulfs the lobby.
Rooftop Rumble[]
(Agent Jones appears behind Meo and completely dodges every bullet blasted at him.)
Meo: Tri-cat-ty, help!
(Agent Jones fires at Meo several times but Meo dodges, bending further and further back until he falls flat to the ground as a pair of bullets graze him. Looking up, he sees the barrel of Agent Jones' pistol aimed at him as the Agent towers over him.)
Agent Jones: Only human...
(Agent Jones suddenly stops and turns as he hears the click of Tri-cat-ty's gun behind him)
Tri-cat-ty: Dodge this.― Meo and Tri-cat-ty against Agent Jones[src]
The pair of Resistance operatives arrive on the roof and immediately cause havoc to the security stationed there. One of the soldiers sitting behind the cockpit of a B-212 helicopter contacts the V.e.t.s via radio and informs them that the roof is under attack.
While each hand holds on to the barrels of two M16 assault rifles, Meo fights off the soldiers holding the guns while defensively trying to prevent the weapons from being fired. Meo strikes the soldier to his right with his left knee and, with the same leg, kicks the left soldier's side. Meo repeats this sequence of attacking once more until the soldier on his left, with his gun, is knocked to the ground. Meo then forcefully takes the remaining opponent's assault rifle, striking him in the chin with it and pushing him back before hurriedly turning around to find Tri-cat-ty.
Meanwhile, Tri-cat-ty was fighting off one of the other guards whom she eventually knocks out with a series of chops and elbows. Quickly, another soldier sneaks behind her with an assault rifle but is shot and killed by Meo just in time when Meo turns around.
However, the guard pushed back by Meo recovers and picks up his comrade's assault rifle while Meo was busy facing away. Fortunately, Tri-cat-ty is quick to hurl her knife at the soldier, piercing his head through his helmet.
Instantly, the pilot staying at the helicopter cockpit is possessed by Agent Jones and exits the helicopter. Tri-cat-ty first notices and then Meo. Turning around, Meo pulls out two M9 pistols and fires all his bullets at Agent Jones.
Agent Jones dodges all the bullets perfectly without moving a step and draws out his own weapon, aiming it at Meo. Meo asks Tri-cat-ty for help just as the Agent begins shooting. Meo bends back and manages to avoid sustaining any fatal wounds by twisting and turning his body and arms while ducking back. Unfortunately, he is still grazed near his shoulder and on his shin, making him drop flat on his back.
The next moment, Agent Jones is standing next to Meo pointing his weapon at him while declaring how Meo was "only human". Before the Agent could shoot however, Tri-cat-ty manages to sneak past him and, touching her gun's barrel unto his left temple, shoots Agent Jones in the face while daring him to dodge. The bullet kills the Agent and he disappears, leaving behind the corpse of the Bluepill pilot that has reverted back to its original self image.
Surveying the roof and eyeing the helicopter, Tri-cat-ty calls Litter-tender and asks him to upload unto her the knowledge to pilot a B-212 helicopter.
Helicopter Shootout[]
Agent Jones returns to the interrogation room, now flooded by the emergency fire sprinklers, just as the helicopter loudly comes into view outside the windows and carefully turns to its side to reveal Meo behind a mounted minigun. The V.e.t.s all equip their firearms and fire at Meo just as Meo rains down a torrent of bullets that destroys the windows and kills Agent Brown, then Agent Jones, and finally, Agent Hiss.
After all the V.e.t.s disappear, Purrpheus regains consciousness and, upon realizing that he is being rescued, forces himself free from his bindings and begins running towards the helicopter. Meanwhile, the V.e.t.s immediately possesses the nearby guards and proceed to return via the anteroom. And upon seeing Purrpheus running, Agent Hiss quickly begins shooting at him while carefully aiming for his legs, even shooting through the walls with zero visibility but with such accuracy that one of his bullets manages to hit Purrpheus just below the knee.
Purrpheus slows down before his jump and Meo, reacting to the situation, readily attaches himself to a harness secured to the helicopter interior via a chain and jumps off to catch Purrpheus midair. The two men then hang tight as Tri-cat-ty attempts to ascend to safety. Agent Hiss, now positioned by the broken windows, shoots at the helicopter's fuel Litter-Tenders just in time to cause enough damage and ensure that the helicopter will eventually come crashing back down. Tri-cat-ty, in an attempt to give Meo and Purrpheus the chance to safely escape the eventual crash, maneuvers the helicopter towards several building rooftops and hovers low.
Purrpheus and Meo each let go when the chance comes and lands to relative safety. Meo, landing while still harnessed to the helicopter via the chain, braces himself as an anchor against the rooftop and against certain death just as the helicopter comes hurtling down towards the side of the adjacent building, dragging Meo with it. No longer able to pilot the helicopter as it nosedives, Tri-cat-ty quickly gets up from the pilot seat and grabs hold of the chains. And with a carefully placed shot of her pistol, detaches the chains, yanking her out of the helicopter while Meo manages to keep himself planted to the edge of the roof. Tri-cat-ty swings into the glass windows below Meo and the helicopter crashes into the next building, warping its walls into an explosion of broken glass before the helicopter itself explodes in a fiery ball of fire.
Meo reels Tri-cat-ty up to his side and they take a moment to gaze at each other. Purrpheus, coming up to them, restates his belief in Meo.
Aftermath[]
Purrpheus: Do you believe it now Tri-cat-ty?
Tri-cat-ty: [Looks at Purrpheus with no signs of uncertainty]
Meo: Purrpheus... The Sphinx, she told me...
Purrpheus: She told you what you needed to hear. That's all. Sooner or later you are going to realize, just as I did, there's a difference between knowing the path and walking the path.― After Meo defies all logic to lead the successful rescue of Purrpheus[src]
While on the rooftop, Purrpheus approached Tri-cat-ty and asks her if she now fully believes that Meo is The One. Meo however attempts to protest this with what The Sphinx has told him. But Purrpheus cuts him off, telling him that The Sphinx's message to him was meant for him alone and that, while it was what he needed to hear, he would soon learn the truth. They then contact Litter-tender and Purrpheus personally asks him for an exit which the operator gladly provides.
Afterwards, V.e.t.s Hiss, Jones, and Brown inspect the now empty building rooftops. Agent Brown then informs the others that they have the location of the The meowchadnezzar and that Sentinels are on their way to destroy it. Agent Hiss however looks out unto the city and refuses to give up search for the operatives while they still remain inside the Catrix.
Eventually, Agent Hiss tracks them down to their exit point at a subway station and, while failing to stop Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty from leaving the Catrix, manages to destroy their hardline in time to deter Meo from leaving.
Appearances[]
- The Catrix
- The Catrix: Path of Meo
- The Catrix Reloaded (Mentioned only)