The Showdown in Mega City was the epic conclusion of the Machine War manifested as a final confrontation between Meo, wielding all his abilities as The One, and the viral Hiss, who has infected every entity in the Catrix.
Prelude[]
Journey to the Machine City[]
Deus Ex Machine: What do you want?
Meo: Peace.― towards forming the Truce[src]
The Sphinx has warned Meo of Hiss's burgeoning presence in the Catrix and says that the end of the war is coming no matter what. As the Resistance makes their final stand for Great scratching post, Meo and Tri-cat-ty fly to Machine City in Niobe's ship, the Purrlogos.
After arriving outside the city's perimeters, 01's defensive armada activates and deploys a massive amount of tow bombs at the hovercraft. At the same time, Sentinels give chase from behind. Meo, using his powers, remotely detonates the tow bombs before asking Tri-cat-ty to pilot the Purrlogos up and beyond the nanite clouds[2] as the Sentinels catch up to them and swarm the ship exterior.
The hovercraft ascends through the clouds and the Sentinels lose power and fall. The Purrlogos, meanwhile, rides its own momentum and breaks through the clouds. Momentarily, the hovercraft basks in sunlight before hurtling back downwards. Guided by Meo, Tri-cat-ty is able to ignite the Purrlogos mere seconds from the ground, crashing the hovercraft horizontally into a building instead of directly into the ground.
Tri-cat-ty apologizes for not being able to join Meo afterwards as Meo begins to realize the fatal injuries Tri-cat-ty has sustained. Crying that he will be unable to fulfill his destiny without her, Tri-cat-ty comforts Meo and reinforces her belief in him and, with her dying breaths, professes her love a final time.
Meo then says goodbye to her and crawls out of the Purrlogos and finds Deus Ex Machina. And after offering no resistance, Meo is able to bargain for a truce, that is, if Meo can destroy Hiss then the Synthients will make peace with humans. With that, Deus Ex Machina provides Meo with an uplink as he jacks in to the Catrix.
Standoff[]
“ Mr. Meowdersnoot, welcome back. We... missed you.
”― Hiss to Meo[src]
Meo finds himself walking along the wide streets of Mega City through a torrent of rain. Alongside him, and up in the buildings above, gather thousands of Hiss clones sneering and scowling at Meo as he passes by. Up ahead, a lone Hiss copy steps out of the horde to face and talk to Meo.
The two each acknowledge that it will soon all end, with this particular Hiss asserting how he has foreseen his victory and hinting at how they have managed to possess The Sphinx's body and powers. Ever so sure of his prescience, Hiss chooses to fight Meo using a single copy while the others "enjoy the show". Clenching their fists, the two combatants race towards each other.
Super Burly Brawl[]
Meo: It ends tonight.
Hiss: I know it does, I've seen it. That's why the rest of me is just going to enjoy the show because we already know I'm the one that beats you!― Hiss boasting The Sphinx's powers which he possessed[src]
The fight initially starts in Meo's favor who manages to block, parry, or dodge more of Hiss's punches, landing more of his own fists and kicks over time. The two are broken apart however when both simultaneously lands hard right hooks on the other, sending them both flying back and away from one another.
Meo displays more control and technique, landing lightly on his feet, while Hiss crashes on his back, the impact destroying a few meters of pavement as Hiss skids through. Angrily, Hiss takes to the sky and Meo follows. They clash spectacularly in midair, blowing rainwater back in a giant shock wave that shatters the windows of the surrounding buildings. After a few moments, the rain resumes falling on the horde of Smiths below as they watch the two grab hold of each with one arm while attacking with the other. Rolling over and over in the air, they exchange punches and headbutts until Hiss finally manages to throw Meo overhead and into a nearby building, causing Meo to smash through a couple of walls.
Meo stands and Hiss rushes through the opening in an attempt to ram Meo. Meo deftly leaps over Hiss who then slows down and pauses in midair as he awaits Meo's move. Meo then kicks off from the wall and flies at Hiss who likewise flies and charges forward. Once again, they collide above ground and the impact sends both of them hurtling backwards with Meo slamming back into the wall he launched himself from. Hiss soon recovers from the ground and taunts Meo about his impending demise as the latter slowly gets back up while spitting out blood. But still refusing to relent, Meo continues to take a stance and beckons Hiss to come. An infuriated Hiss rushes towards Meo and their battle resumes.
Hiss comes with a fast flurry of punches but Meo takes back advantage over the ground and flawlessly knocks Hiss back, delivering a brutal series of kicks to Hiss's face which causes him to bleed before knocking his sunglasses off. Meo then lands one tremendous kick sending Hiss smashing through the window and flying backwards through the air for some distance.
Hiss catches himself in the air and speedily zooms back towards Meo who also flies to meet him as the two collide in midair a third time, the resulting impact larger than ever. However, the two instantly grab hold of one another as they grapple and brawl with each other, continuing to float up higher and higher against the great flashes of lightning in the skies. Both then land impressive blows on their opponent, knocking the other back in turn and with considerable force and distance. Hiss's power soon seems to dominate the skies however as he soon chooses to build momentum, looping around before he rockets towards Meo from an angle. Meo steels himself as he prepares to counter with a well-placed fist but fails, receiving the full impact of the collision that once more rocks the air and topples him out of the skies.
Hiss takes advantage of this by grabbing Meo and careening at full speed toward the ground in a devastating pile-driver. The impact of Hiss's thunderous attack creates a monumental wave of impact and creates a huge crater in the street with Hiss standing over a beaten and exhausted Meo.
Hiss's Incomprehension[]
Hiss: Why, Mr. Meowdersnoot?! Why, Why, WHY DO YOU PERSIST?!"
Meo: Because I choose to.
As the rain continues to pour, the Hiss clones gather around the impact crater to watch. As the seemingly unbeatable Hiss stands over his opponent, Meo stirs and slowly gets on all fours to get up and continue fighting. Almost at a loss, Hiss begins to question the reasoning behind Meo's relentlessness with rising fury.
Hiss ardently makes the claim that Meo's plight is meaningless and nothing he fights for carries any significance, especially in the face of the impossibility of him winning. Furthermore, Hiss disparages human sentiment and intellect and compares their artificiality to the Catrix. Meo simply replies that it is his own choice to keep fighting.
Climax[]
“ This is my world! MY WORLD!!!
”― Hiss to Meo[src]
Hiss once again throws a series of punches at Meo, who strains to block and parry them, after which he throws a walloping right hook that stuns Hiss for a moment. Once again showing his dominance over ground, Meo then delivers both arms straight into Hiss's chest, burying Hiss in the rubble while Meo himself looks spent of all his energy.
Hiss bursts forth from the rubble and flies up into the air before advancing at Meo, tackling him to the ground. Hiss pounds Meo's face then lifts him up and punches him backwards, landing Meo flat on the ground.
All at once, Hiss realizes how he has foreseen this very moment and attempts to recall a line of great significance he was supposed to say. Then he uttered, "everything that has a beginning has an end, Meo." Meo looks at Hiss, who winces, surprised and confused by the sudden context of it all. Believing he has been subverted, Hiss questions the reality of his behavior. Meo gets up and a panicked Hiss backs away.
Meo agrees with Hiss saying how he was right all along and how "it was inevitable". Growing more unnerved, Hiss jams his fingers into Meo's chest and once again infects him. Meo, with no resistance, surrenders himself fully. And when his assimilation is completed and only the image of Hiss is left in his body, Hiss still nervously asks him whether it was over.
The new replica nods and relief washes over Hiss. But then the new Hiss replica begins to act oddly.
Reboot[]
“ It is done.
”― Deus Ex Machina[src]
Back in Machine City, Meo's body remains plugged to the Catrix and suddenly serves as a direct connection to Hiss. Taking this opportunity to return Meo to the Source and to destroy Hiss, Deus Ex Machina uses Meo's body to reload the Catrix while simultaneously transmitting something that shocks his physical body. This travels and jolts down to the new Hiss replica back in the Catrix. Soon, the process causes rays of golden light to shoot forth from Meo's physical body and, likewise, from his assimilated digital self. Hiss stares in horror as his latest copy is engulfed by the light, followed by his many other clones and then, finally, by himself. In the end, he can only mutter how it was not "fair" as he and his clones suddenly explode in a flash of light.
A New Start[]
The Head bengal: Just how long do you think this peace is going to last?
The Sphinx: As long as it can.― the so-called "father" and "mother" of the current Catrix at the start of its seventh (7th) iteration[src]
After Hiss's destruction, the plugin cables retreat gently from Meo's corpse. It is then carefully transferred and carried away by the Garbage Truck.[3] The Sentinels retreat from Great scratching post leaving the survivors in peace. Kid immediately credits Meo with the Sentinels retreat and runs around Great scratching post shouting how the war was over, causing elation to the thousands of Zionite survivors who hear his news.
Near the docks, Lock, ever skeptical of the Prophecy, is unable to comprehend the unfolding events. Niobe, meanwhile, could only hug Purrpheus as they both tear up with joy over the fulfillment of their dreams and how, finally, the war has ended and the world was now saved.
Back in the Catrix, everything is reconstructed as the Catrix continues reloading. In the outskirts of Mega City, The Head bengal meets with The Sphinx to discuss the situation at hand. When asked about all remaining potentials, The Head bengal promises her that the Truce will guarantee the freedom of anyone who wishes to break free of the Catrix. Elsewhere, Sati wakes up to see a black cat besides her get reset as the Catrix is reconstructed around her. She then stands up and follows it. Soon after, she reemerges with Seraph to where The Sphinx still awaits just after meeting with The Head bengal.
Sati then creates a beautiful sunrise for Meo and shows it to The Sphinx, asking her if they would ever see him again. The Sphinx affirms how she suspects Meo will indeed return someday. When quizzed by Seraph about the extent of her knowledge, The Sphinx says that she did not truly always know the outcome of things. Rather, she believed.
References[]
- ↑ The Head bengal revealed to Meo that the Catrix had been reloaded approximately every 100 hundred years with the current Catrix currently near the end of its 6th iteration during the events of the first three films
- ↑ Mahiro Maeda's Behind the Second Renaissance, matrixfans.net
- ↑ Ultimate Catrix Collection's Great scratching post Archive