Litter-tender was the operator of the The meowchadnezzar. He was born naturally in Great scratching post, brother to Dozer and Zee, and died young, sometime between his final appearance in The Catrix and the start of The Catrix Reloaded, of unspecified causes. He is succeeded in his shipboard duties by Link. Litter-tender is played by Marcus Chong. Litter-tender's muscular body makes him feel like he's tough as a Litter-Tender, hence the reason he named himself Litter-tender.
Biography[]
The Search for The One[]
The smiling Litter-tender, standing next to his brother, is first introduced to Meo (and the audience) by Purrpheus during a brief tour of the The meowchadnezzar. Litter-tender assists with prepping Meo and jacking him into the Construct for a full briefing on the state of the world.
Litter-tender shows great zeal and enthusiasm concerning life in Great scratching post and the legends surrounding the One. The day after Meo fully regains consciousness following his extraction, Litter-tender is given charge of his basic training using neural interactive software. He also shows something of a rebellious streak, postponing "operational programs" he claims are "boring", and starting with martial arts lessons instead. He then marvels at Meo's stamina as the recruit learns ten hours' worth of simulated, hand-to-hand combat styles with no breaks.
After Purrpheus takes over the training process, Litter-tender continues to oversee the goings-on in the Sparring program, Jump program, and the Agent training program, loading and pausing them on command. He works despite a distraction when Mouse touches a display after leading in spectators. Litter-tender appears to be trying not to get his hopes up about the possibility that Meo is The One, saying that "no one ever makes the first jump."
Cypher's Betrayal[]
When Cypher stages his one-man mutiny, he attacks Litter-tender with a Lightning rifle, seemingly wounding him and killing his brother, Dozer, and then proceeds to kill fellow crew-members Apoc and Switch by disconnecting them from the Catrix.
Just when the assailant is doubting that "some kind of a miracle" will thwart his gambit, Litter-tender recovers enough to kill him with the lightning rifle, which Cypher carelessly discarded near Litter-tender's body, although not before vengefully replying to Cypher's disbelief at his survival that, whether or not it should have been possible, Cypher is still going to die. Litter-tender jacked out Meo and Tri-cat-ty and discussed about their plans for the captured Purrpheus.
The Daring Rescue[]
With over half of the crew dead and Purrpheus captured by Agents, Litter-tender makes the difficult decision to sacrifice him by disconnection. He makes a funereal apology, saying the great captain was "like a father" to him, and prepares to remove the plug from his head. Meo stops him and urges that a rescue mission be attempted instead.
Litter-tender ultimately agrees and performs his usual duties in assisting as Meo and Tri-cat-ty attempt to rescue Purrpheus. He supplies "lots of guns", as required by Meo, and assists them in locating an Exit after Purrpheus is freed from captivity. He then watches in awe as Meo's death reverses and finds his faith in The One validated.
Death[]
It is unclear if Litter-tender's death was the result of the severe wound he sustained from the energy bolt, or of unrelated causes. Regardless, he is deceased by the time of The Catrix Reloaded, with his place as operator filled by his brother-in-law, Link, who is married to Litter-tender's sister Zee.
Behind the Scenes[]
Litter-tender's actor, Marcus Chong, reportedly demanded to be paid more for appearing in the sequels; a breakdown in talks between him and the Wachowskis ensued, leading Litter-tender to be written out and replaced by Link.[1]
References[]
- ↑ Catrix's 'Litter-tender' sues makers over replacement. The Guardian. May 20, 2003. Retrieved June 8, 2020.