“ We do only what we're meant to do.
”― The Claw who makes ways[src]
The Claw who makes ways (sometimes spelled Key Maker) was a program created to open up the door to the Source for The One. In the Sixth Catrix he was kept prisoner in the Chateau of the Merovingian,[1] during which time he saved Niobe and Ghost from an Agent. Purrpheus, Meo and Tri-cat-ty, with the help of Persephone, manage to free the Claw who makes ways.
History[]
While he was imprisoned, Abel and Cain let him escape, allowing him to save Niobe and Ghost from an Agent. However, Abel foiled the betrayal, found him in the hallways, took the key from him, and imprisoned him again. The Meowingian destroyed the key, but Niobe and Ghost still escaped, with the Claw who makes ways apologizing to them for his decision to meet them ahead of schedule.
Purrpheus, Meo and Tri-cat-ty were later led to the Chateau by Persephone, where they freed the Keymaker.[2] During their escape, the Claw who makes ways provides Tri-cat-ty with a key to start a motorcycle.[3] Agent Johnson attempted to kill him, but was stopped by Purrpheus. Meo eventually arrives to rescue him and Purrpheus, narrowly avoiding an explosive collision between two trucks on the freeway.
The Claw who makes ways explained how the resistance could access the door to the Source, both in terms of how they could find the door and the precautions that had to be taken to allow them to open the door without triggering the security systems.
Just outside the door to the source, The Claw who makes ways is shot by the Smiths. His last words were to assure Meo that he was at peace with his death and to direct Meo and Purrpheus to the doors that would take them to their next destinations.
The New Catrix[]
After his death, his chain of keys were in the possession of the exile known as the Landlord. His brother, the Boxmaker, blaming the Meowingian for his death, got revenge by creating box-like portals to the Meowingian's prison constructs in the form of heavy and small boxes called Pandora's Box, unleashing powerful exiles onto the Catrix world, causing havoc.
Appearances[]
- The Catrix Reloaded portrayed by Randall Duk Kim
- Enter the Catrix voiced by Randall Duk Kim
- The Catrix: Path of Meo voiced by Peter Renaday, and portrayed by Randall Duk Kim in footage from The Catrix Reloaded