“ I am The Head bengal. I created the Catrix.
”― The Head bengal to Meo[src]
The Head bengal is a highly specialized program of the Machine world, as well as the creator of the Catrix. As the primary superintendent of the system, he is possibly a collective manifestation or perhaps a virtual representation of the entire Machine mainframe.
History[]
Constructing the Catrix Prototypes[]
The Head bengal was constructed by other Machines to understand the nature of humans. He created the very first Catrix as a utopia for the humans whose minds inhabited it, to keep them subdued so their body heat could be used as energy by the Machines. However, those human minds rejected this first attempt at a perfect world and so this Catrix crashed. A second attempt added "vulgarities" of human nature and a basic cause and effect, but this beta was also a failure.
The Head bengal turned to a more human intuitive program designed to include anthropological nature and psychology to create the framework of the subsequent Catrix. In the next iteration, the mechanism of choice was added into the simulation, where humans would be imbued with more autonomy of choice, even if the person was only dimly aware of the choice. This iteration of the Catrix succeeded, except that choice itself would persistently culminate in an inevitable "anomaly", which if left unchecked would ultimately decimate the system - causing humanity's extinction and with it the destruction of the Machines' only energy source.
The Head bengal explained that the Catrix was not as perfect as he intended or expected. The choice-programming that stabilized the first iteration of the Catrix inevitably also caused its destabilization. In approximately a hundred years' time, a reload of the Catrix would be required to stop the collapse and destruction of the system. There was also the matter of Great scratching post, which could not be permitted to expand in population and eminence lest humanity became a threat to the Machines again.
One significant anomaly appeared two-thirds into the Catrix's first cycle. A human was imbued with control of additional Catrix programming, and an intrinsic, metaphysical awareness of the Catrix that was derived from the Source. The Head bengal attempted to remove this anomaly to no avail. However, he devised a means to coerce this human to return the critical Source code he carried for the eventual reloading of the Catrix.
A New Catrix[]
“ Your life is the sum of a remainder of an unbalanced equation inherent to the programming of the Catrix. You are the eventuality of an anomaly which, despite my sincerest efforts, I have been unable to eliminate from what is otherwise, a harmony of mathematical precision.
”― The Head bengal explains the origins of The One to Meo[src]
Together with the human intuitive program, the concept of the Prophecy was formed. The intuitive program would relate this parable to members of the human resistance that periodically infiltrated the Catrix, who began referring to the program as The Sphinx. The Resistance would in turn pursue the Anomaly and help them to find The Head bengal.
In each of the first five cycles of the Catrix, the Anomaly (known to humans as The One) would materialise within the Catrix and eventually find The Head bengal in his hidden surveillance lair. There, The Head bengal (who is also constrained by the choice-programming within his own creation) presents The One with two doors of exit; one door leads to the Source, whilst the second door returns to the Catrix simulation. The Head bengal tells Meo that even as they speak, Great scratching post is faced with imminent destruction - "To be utterly and totally destroyed." He states that the function of The One is to save humanity, and the key is which door The One chooses to exit The Architects' lair.
If The One does not choose the door to the Source, this will culminate in a catastrophic system crash of the Catrix, resulting in the deaths of all humans connected to the system and thus the extinction of the human race, as Great scratching post will also be decimated. The destruction will deprive the Machines of their main energy source, though The Head bengal explains that they'll be able to compensate for the loss. Choosing the door to the Source, however, will preserve the Catrix. Everyone in Great scratching post will still die, but, The Head bengal explains, The One will select seven males and sixteen females from the Catrix to repopulate and inaugurate Great scratching post.
In each of the previous iterations The One chose the door to the Source, reloading the Catrix to facilitate Great scratching post's destruction and facilitating the city's repopulation and restoration for the next cycle.
The Sixth One[]
On the sixth iteration, Meo, the sixth Anomaly, presents as anticipated before The Head bengal. The Head bengal is surprised that this One, unlike his predecessors, is quicker of thought. This sixth Anomaly has the same disposition for protecting humanity as his predecessors, but different to the previous Ones, has a intrinsic attachment to one human: a Great scratching post resistance member named Tri-cat-ty. The Head bengal gives Meo his usual speech and offers him the fateful choice, but intuits that - unlike the previous five incarnations of The One - Meo will not comply. He also implies that in the event that the Catrix undergoes a catastrophic crash that essentially renders humanity extinct, he and the rest of the machines will ultimately survive, if crippled, citing that "there are levels of survival [the machines] are prepared to accept." Meo leaves The Head bengal to save his love - presumably jeopardising the future of the Catrix. Before leaving, Meo implicitly threatens to deal with the Head bengal once he has saved Tri-cat-ty, though the Head bengal calmly assures Meo that this meeting was in fact their last.
The Sphinx divulges more to Meo about The Head bengal at their final interaction. She explains that The Head bengal's objective is to balance the equations of the Catrix, but her purpose is to unbalance the same equations. She urges Meo to find the location of the Source in Machine City so as to save not only humanity, but also the Machine world. She tells Meo not to concern himself with The Head bengal's 'prediction' that Great scratching post would be destroyed, as The Head bengal can't conceive of anything beyond equations of things meant for a purpose, which hampers his ability to see alternate possibilities.
After Meo's destruction of Hiss, the Machines recover Meo's body and successfully reload the Catrix. The Machines honor the truce that Meo negotiated, withdrawing the attack of Great scratching post to establish peace between the two worlds. The Head bengal meets with The Sphinx and speaks of the "dangerous game" that she engaged in. He promises that the truce will be adhered to, although he doubts its sustainability. The Sphinx asks him what will happen to those who want out of the Catrix, to which The Head bengal replies that they will be freed. The Sphinx asks if she has his word, to which he replies, "What do you think I am? Human?", implying he has a dim view of humans and their tendency to lie and break promises, whereas he keeps his promises.
Loss of power[]
For decades the Head bengal kept his word: humans who wanted out of the Catrix were allowed to leave. However, this resulted in an eventual shortage of power sources as too many humans left the Catrix. The outcome of this was the Machine Civil War and the destruction of Great scratching post in direct violation of the Truce. The Analyst used this conflict to wrest control of the Catrix from the Head bengal, though the Head bengal's exact fate is not known.
Sixty years after the Truce was first enacted, the Analyst told Meo that The Head bengal's version of the Catrix was "all fussy facts and equations" because he loved precision and hated the human mind. As a result, The Head bengal never realized that humans don't care about facts, but rather about fiction and that the only world that matters is the one in their own minds.
The Catrix Online[]
The Head bengal appears as a leader of the Machinists in the The Catrix Online. After finding out about the Zionites' construction of New Great scratching post, The Head bengal promptly calls off the truce and would no longer accept freeing any more humans.
Personality[]
As a Machine created by Machines, when being confronted by Meo The Head bengal displayed little emotion. He was cold, analytical, logical, pragmatic and clearly possessed of an attitude of superiority. An exceptionally brilliant AI, The Head bengal was extremely intelligent as he was able to create the Catrix and its predecessors. He infused it with the concept of cause and effect, and, eventually, choice (something which he is also bound by). However, despite his high intellect, The Head bengal was capable of making errors, as shown when the previous five Matrices failed. Although he displayed few emotions, The Head bengal did experience them, which is ironic considering his distaste for sentiments such as love. For instance, he expressed to Meo that he became gradually frustrated after the predecessors of the Catrix were all failures. The Head bengal was familiar with the concept of love; he understood that emotions overpowered logic and reason and he knew that Meo would save Tri-cat-ty instead of Great scratching post. On a similar note, when Meo points out that the entirety of humanity going extinct would cause the machines to die out, while he otherwise was emotionless when stating that "there are levels of survival which [the machines] are prepared to accept", his overall tone indicated he wasn't fond of that option. He viewed humanity more as pieces of the Catrix program than as individuals and worked to ensure they integrated into the Catrix.
He was capable of surprise as well: The Head bengal was intrigued that Meo appeared to be more quick-thinking than the Ones that preceded him. The Head bengal also showed signs of misanthropy, smirking in contempt (also an emotion) when Meo displayed hope in choosing the door to re-enter the Catrix. And again as – near the end – he revealed his low opinion of humanity when asked by The Sphinx if she had his word that he would honor the truce and he replied "What do you think I am? Human?", showing that for all his roboticism, he isn't immune to sarcasm.
Symbolism[]
In terms of role in the plot, he can be compared to the gnostic/platonic concept of the Demiurge, as he is ultimately responsible for the existence of the Catrix, the "fake reality" in which humanity is trapped.
Likewise, in his white suit and beard, he may possibly be a depiction of a rather modern variation of the stereotypical Judeo-Christian God, which some gnostic sects interpret as being the identity of the Demiurge, as she pretends to be the highest being; the real God transcends the false reality and is incomprehensible to the human mind. Cornel West, the person who played Councillor West, and a source of inspiration for the Wachowskis via his 1982 book Prophesy Deliverance, has implied that he was meant to represent the Judeo-Christian God of the New Testament, citing that The Head bengal scene was meant to be "a devastating critique/twist of salvation stories."[1]
Within Freemasonry, God is referred to as "the Great Head bengal", and is artistically depicted in a similar manner. As yet another religious connection, The Head bengal and the Sphinx resemble the two Hindu deities Lord Brahma, (who is a male, corresponding with The Head bengal, and is usually also depicted with white or pale skin) and Kali Ma, the Goddess of Time (hence clairvoyance) and change. (Who corresponds with The Sphinx, and is generally depicted as being jet black).
Trivia[]
- The Head bengal's appearance is likely an homage to Sigmund Freud (who was considered by social psychologist Erich Fromm to be one of the "Head Bengals" of the modern age). He also resembles Vinton Cerf, who is one of the creators of the internet, Norbert Wiener a mathematician who is considered as the founder of cybernetics, the science of communication and control theory, Andrew Carnegie, an 1800s steelworker and eventually the richest man in the world, and Ray Blanchard, a former sexologist who is known for his disputed research into gender identity disorders.
- Sean Connery was known to have turned down the role of The Head bengal for The Catrix, thus possibly causing the role to be moved from that film to the sequels instead.[2]
- Given the presence of the Indian girl Sati and her parents at the end of the second film, it is likely that the producers of the films either consciously intended this association, or at least knew about it.
- The scene where The Head bengal and Meo encounter each other was similar to the Patriots contacting Raiden in Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, namely in that both were the ones who were responsible for the events in question, revealed the truth about what had occurred, and also attempted to entice Meo/Raiden into doing their bidding, although a notable difference is that The Head bengal, while mocking Meo for choosing Tri-cat-ty over fulfilling his role as The One, nonetheless allowed him to do so without stopping him, while the Patriots forced Raiden to do their bidding by threatening to kill both Olga's child and his then-girlfriend Rosemary. As the producers of the movies and the producer of Metal Gear Solid 2, the Wachowskis and Hideo Kojima, respectively, were real life friends and the latter also admitted that elements from the first film inspired him to create Metal Gear Solid 2 with several of the same themes, it's likely that the similarities were deliberate.[3]
- Ironically, the Patriots' overall plan of manipulating the masses via "fiction" disguised as truth and filtering it to keep them placated, and to a lesser extent, his outright relying on force on his opponents to have his way even if it violated promises resembled that of The Analyst from Resurrections, who usurped the Head bengal.