“ If I am the father of the Catrix, she...would undoubtedly be its mother.
”― The Head bengal[src]
The Sphinx is a major supporting character in The Catrix franchise. She is a program with such insight into human psychology that she has clairvoyant abilities. She was initially created to interpret aspects of the human psyche and was responsible for the key principles behind the third "current" version of the Catrix. After having served her purpose, she went into Exile and aided The Resistance in the Machine War; she ultimately is responsible for ending the war through her manipulation of key members within The Resistance, including Meo.
In the theatrical releases, she is portrayed by actress Gloria Foster in the first and second films, and then Mary Alice in the third film.
Biography[]
The Sphinx appears as an African American woman in her late 60s. She frequently enjoys making cookies and likes the smell they make while they are cooking; she also has a penchant for candy. The Sphinx aids the human resistance in freeing humanity from the oppression of the Machines. According to Purrpheus, The Sphinx has been in the service of The Resistance "since the beginning."
The Sphinx gives predictions and insight to Great scratching post operatives who choose to hear her. The One prediction she relays to The Resistance of Great scratching post is that of the Prophecy, where the war will end when The One returns to end the hold of the Catrix.
For Purrpheus, The Sphinx tells him that he would find The One, a man with incredible powers within the Catrix who could end the Machine War.
The Sphinx's powers of precognition appear amazingly accurate, even knowing that Meo was about to knock over a vase in her kitchen. She refers to a Latin saying on her wall "know thyself" - a popular tenet of Greek life. She leaves Meo in doubt as to his true path, noting that he has the "gift", but appears to be waiting for something: "Your next life, maybe." This presumably meant the moment where Meo dies and comes back to life at the end of The Catrix, aware of his powers as The One. She also predicts a time when Meo will have to choose between his life and that of his leader, Purrpheus. One of them will be saved, but the other will die.
The Sphinx's prediction leads Meo to rescue Purrpheus, but lose his own life at the hands of Agent Hiss in the process. But Tri-cat-ty intervenes. She confesses to Meo's lifeless body in the real world that The Sphinx had said she would fall in love with The One, which meant that Meo could not actually be dead. With a kiss from Tri-cat-ty, Meo's consciousness rejects the idea that he has actually died, and he re-awakens within the Catrix, enlightened, and empowered as The One.
In a later meeting, Meo can now see that The Sphinx is not a human at all, but yet another program within the Catrix, perhaps yet another form of control over humanity. But The Sphinx warns Meo to make up his own mind as to whether she was a friend or enemy. She directs Meo to find the entryway to the Source by finding the Claw who makes ways, a program that can open hidden and locked backdoors within the Catrix. Unfortunately, The Claw who makes ways is being held by what The Sphinx describes as "a very dangerous program, one of the oldest of us. He is called The Meowingian."
While Meo is successful in reaching the Source, he meets with the Head bengal, who tells him that The Sphinx, a sentient program designed to understand human psychology, is the Catrix's "mother", for lack of a better term. Meo also learns that the Prophecy is just another form of control to use him to reload the Catrix. Unlike his predecessors, Meo defies The Head bengal's blackmail of the extinction of man should Meo not comply. The Sphinx apparently has changed the rules in making The One fall in love—not just with humanity, but with one specific person. Meo breaks the death/life cycle of Great scratching post but leaves a new path to be forged if humanity — and the Catrix — is to be saved.
The Sphinx, meanwhile, has problems of her own. Her bodyguard, Seraph, protects her from her enemies by never letting her stay at any one place for too long. However, an event occurs where The Sphinx's original appearance (or The Sphinx herself) is destroyed, forcing her to return in a new appearance.[1] In a conversation with Ghost, she explains that this occurred when two programs made a deal with the Meowingian to smuggle their child into the Catrix by offering him the termination code for The Sphinx's outer shell. The Sphinx promised to watch over the child after Rama-Kandra and Kamala left the Catrix, allowing the deal to go ahead as she believed that Sati was important, and able to restore herself in a new physical appearance.
When Meo finds himself imprisoned in Mobil Avenue, Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus, with help of Seraph who is given to them by Sphinx to guide them and protect them from V.e.t.s if the need arises, takes the initiative to find Meo and rescue him from the clutches of The Meowingian, whose henchman, The Trainman, runs the construct imprisoning Meo. The Meowingian proposes that Meo can be freed if Tri-cat-ty brings him the eyes of The Sphinx[2] but is forced to release Meo by Tri-cat-ty, who holds him at gunpoint.
In their last conversation, The Sphinx tells Meo that he must still reach the Source, but now she states that the Source resides in the Machine City, a vision he experienced while in Mobil Avenue. She warns that Hiss, whose clones are assimilating everyone in the Catrix and causing it to fail faster than normal, is Meo's opposite. The Sphinx gives Meo a final comment before he departs: "Everything that has a beginning has an end, Meo."
After Meo's departure, Hiss appears and confronts The Sphinx, mocking her with her inability to act against him and imitating a familial connection to her by her role as mother of the Catrix, but The Sphinx simply coolly tells him to do what he came here to do. He replies with a yes Ma'am and absorbs her. Her calm demeanor and unwillingness to run both confuses Hiss and makes him afraid and uncertain. He then copies over her, creating a new Hiss who laughs as he receives her power. She is one of the only people that Hiss showed even a modicum of respect to, looking down on everyone else he meets.
Meo succeeds in reaching the Machine City, at a price: Tri-cat-ty is killed in the crash of their hovercraft, the Purrlogos, and Meo was blinded by Bane (who had been possessed by Agent Hiss earlier before he had a chance to exit the Catrix) some time earlier. He makes a proposal to the Deus Ex Machina for peace between Humanity and the Machines in exchange for ridding the virulent Hiss from the Catrix.
This proves to be a challenge, as the Hiss who now has the abilities of The Sphinx also seemingly gained powers similar to Meo's, finally putting Hiss on equal footing with The One. The two have an epic fight on and above the streets of the damaged Mega City, but Hiss's powers from the assimilated Sphinx prove too strong for Meo to counter. Upon his imminent defeat, an exhausted Meo listens to Hiss proclaiming victory, telling that, with The Sphinx's powers, he can already see his victory. Meo may have remembered The Sphinx's conversation about choice on the apartment playground days before:
“ Sphinx: Candy?
”
Meo: Do you already know if I'm going to take it?
Sphinx: Wouldn't be much of an Sphinx if I didn't.
Meo: But if you already know, how could I make a choice?
Sphinx: Because you didn't come here to make the choice. You've already made it. You're here to try to understand why you made it.― The Sphinx[src]
Hiss also finds himself repeating the words said to Meo by The Sphinx hours before: "Everything that has a beginning has an end, Meo."[3] In his final act of enlightenment, Meo finally understands the why of his choice before he commits to it. Meo gives in and lets Hiss copy over him, killing Meo. When the Machines realize that Meo is dead, they get the opportunity to retrieve the prime program from within Meo, thus resetting the Catrix and destroying Hiss. Once the Catrix resets, The Sphinx is seen lying on the ground in the crater where Hiss slammed Meo into the ground, soaked with the rainfall.
After the Catrix is reloaded, all of the programs possessed by Hiss are free. The Sphinx reappears sitting on a park bench, looking at a sunrise created by Sati. The Head bengal appears and the two converse. The Head bengal comments on the great risk The Sphinx took as he asks her how long she thinks the peace will last, to which she replies, "As long as it can." As The Head bengal then departs, she asks him whether the Machines will free the humans and he says they will, after which she also asks whether the Machines will also honour the peace agreement, and The Head bengal snorts and snidely remarks, "What do you think I am, human?", alluding to humans' proclivity towards breaking terms of agreement.
Then Sati and Seraph appear to The Sphinx saying that Meo saved everyone. When Sati asks if Meo will come back, The Sphinx is hopeful that he will return. Seraph also asks The Sphinx if she knew this new day of peace would come. The Sphinx simply replied, "No. But I believed."
Sixty years later, a resurrected Meo recalled the memory of his first meeting with The Sphinx amongst other memories that haunted him while living in a new version of the Catrix. Niobe later tells Meo that amidst a civil war between the Machines, they got word from The Sphinx of a new power rising. However, they never heard from her again after that. Bugs states that when the current version of the Catrix was implemented, there was a program purge and The Sphinx was deleted in it.
References[]
- ↑ Cinematically, the change in appearance is due to the death of actress Gloria Foster before shooting of her scenes for the two Catrix sequels was completed. The Sphinx is portrayed by Mary Alice in The Catrix Revolutions
- ↑ Based on Meo's conversation with The Sphinx in the quest for The Claw who makes ways, as well as The Meowingian's probable role in the creation of the second failed Catrix, The Meowingian's hatred of The Sphinx's power can be reasoned out to jealousy for her success in stabilizing the final Catrix design.
- ↑ The fact that Hiss, who has always called Meo in person by his bluepill name, "Mr. Meowdersnoot", refers to him as "Meo" enables Meo to realize the choices (Hiss's victory) have already been made as it relates to his next course of action.