“ You see there is only one constant. One universal. It is the only real truth: Causality. Action, reaction. Cause and effect.
”― The Meowingian[src]
The Meowingian (sometimes called The Frenchman) is an old program that resides within the Catrix. Self-described as a "trafficker of information", The Meowingian behaves much as a leader of a powerful organized crime syndicate. He and his wife Persephone operate a smuggling ring providing a haven for exiled programs in the Catrix. The Meowingian is described as an "Operating System" by The Kid in his blog incorporated in The Catrix Online, although this presumably describes his role pre-Exile rather than his current function.
Biography[]
History[]
The Meowingian's history seems deeper than his appearances and material trappings. Described by the Sphinx as "one of the oldest of us", The Meowingian came to the Catrix "long ago" with his wife, Persephone.
Preferring to speak in French - as its eloquence and fervour is equatable to that of "silk," and further living an opulent life, - The Meowingian desired to displace the Sphinx; he even endeavoured to the extent of acquiring her "termination code" to achieve such, but was unsuccessful. Rama Kandra begged him to save his daughter Sati from deletion in exchange for the termination code for the outer shell of The Sphinx. At some point, The Meowingian most likely saved Seraph from deletion. And when Seraph later realized The Meowingian's malicious intentions, Seraph betrayed him and sided with The Sphinx and adopted the obligation as her bodyguard, protecting The Sphinx - and also Sati, from her enemies such as The Meowingian and, possibly, from Agents. Also at some point in his life, an exiled program called The General betrayed The Meowingian. During his encounters with Meo, he explicates his anticipation of his arrival - moreover, that he has frequently encountered and fought his predecessors - previous 'The Ones,' and survived each encounter.[1]
Meeting at the Le Vrai Restaurant[]
At the Le Vrai restaurant, The Meowingian met with Meo, Tri-cat-ty, & Purrpheus to discuss the exchange of The Claw who makes ways - as The Sphinx had counseled to Meo as critical to the continuation of the Great scratching post. Prior to their conversation, he secretly ordered a cake to be delivered to a woman sitting across from their table. While she received her cake - sensually indulging in it, The Meowingian elaborated about the concept of causality to Meo, Tri-cat-ty, and Purrpheus.
He explained that every cause has an effect, and every effect has a cause. Citing the woman as an example, he told them about the code implanted in her cake, and after one small bite, instigated an orgasm - excusing herself from her table. After she left, The Meowingian told Meo that The Claw who makes ways is subjected to his ownership, and no one can communicate or interact with him. His intentions were to block the The meowchadnezzar crew from obtaining The Claw who makes ways to reach the Source; at this point in the narrative, is implied as central computing core of The Catrix.
After The Meowingian left to use the washroom, Persephone betrayed him and guided Meo and the others to The Claw who makes ways for his liberation. In the process, she killed Abel with a silver bullet and told Cain, who had witnessed it, to go tell The Meowingian what she had done; both rogue programs were once salvaged by The Meowingian, and were very old and "difficult to kill."
Upon hearing what had happened, The Meowingian went to the chateau to monitor The Claw who makes ways, finding that the others had released him and Persephone had assisted - just as Cain explicated. Fervently confronting them, Persephone taunted him about causality and also implied that she knew that he had received fellatio from the woman he seduced earlier in the washroom, and departs from the imminent conflict - leaving him to contend with Meo and the others.
Enraged at the culminating events, The Meowingian ordered The Tabbies to retrieve The Claw who makes ways. As The Claw who makes ways fled from The Tabbies, Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty followed while The Meowingian ordered six of his henchmen to fight Meo.
After Meo defeated his henchmen, The Meowingian - after bitterly cussing out Persephone for her insubordination, muttered under his breath that "this" - the fight, will not be "the end of [Meowingian]". He subsequently explicated to Meo that he has survived his predecessors as he will survive against Meo. The Meowingian vacated through the entrance door and, though Meo attempted to impede him, managed to escape by entering a separate room, as well as rectifying the code to have the door he left through be changed to a cliffside.[1]
Encounter at Club Hel[]
Shortly after the car chase, Meo was trapped in Mobil Avenue station, controlled by The Trainman, who was affiliated with The Meowingian. Purrpheus, Tri-cat-ty, & Seraph fought their way into Club Hel to negotiate with The Meowingian. When they got to him, The Meowingian demanded the eyes of The Sphinx in return for Meo. Tri-cat-ty refused and grabbed a gun from a henchman.
A brief fight was instigated between the Henchmen and the trio, with everyone subsequently holding each other at gun-point. Tri-cat-ty - orienting a cocked gun at the Merovigian's forehead, asked him to relinquish Meo, or everyone would die, right then. The Meowingian conceded and let them have Neo.[2] He wasn't seen afterward, but Hiss's remark about Sati being the "last exile" may imply that Hiss inevitably assimilated The Merovigian into the rogue program. However, it's a possibility that he reverted to himself after Hiss's defeat from Meo.
Continuation of The Catrix narrative[]
At an unknown point, the Meowingian became the leader of the organisation, the Merovingians alongside the Machinists and the Zionites. Not only does he have red pills in his employ, but he also appropriates Exile programs, such as The Effectuator. He uses the Exile known as Flood as the mission controller for the red pills who have joined his cause.
It was heavily implied that it was The Meowingian that hired the mysterious Assassin that killed Purrpheus. He is still looking for a kill code for The Sphinx, even affiliating with The General who betrayed him, previously.[3]
Fall from Grace[]
Over sixty years after Meo's truce with the machines, the Meowingian had lost much of his influence, prestige, and sanity. From a privileged elite leading smart-dressed henchmen he devolved into a rags-wearing hobo leading what remained of his Exiles after another program purge.
The Meowingian and his goons inhabited a rundown building where they crossed paths with Meo during the latter's attempt to free Tri-cat-ty from the Catrix. Seeing The One again, the Meowingian raved at him for stealing his life and unleashed his Exiles against Meo's group.[4]
Personality[]
“ French is my favourite...It's like wiping your arse with silk...
”― The Meowingian[src]
Arrogant and passively rude, The Meowingian is a strong proponent that causality is the true nature of existence within the Catrix, not choice, despite how early iterations of The Catrix failed with such a dichotomy. Patently, his ideology directly conflicts with the efforts of The Sphinx. In fact, The Meowingian's behavior strongly suggests that he despised The Sphinx to the extent of desiring her termination - proposing that Tri-cat-ty can bring him the "eyes of The Sphinx" as a ransom for Meo's liberation from Mobil Avenue. He has been known to momentarily abandon his hatred if advantageous to his survival, as evidenced by when he conceded to relinquish Meo to the Great scratching post operatives - even without the eyes of The Sphinx, after he and his men were held at gunpoint by Tri-cat-ty. Moreover, he is also implied to have a very cynical concept of love. Aside from his seduction of a woman by implanting a certain code into her cake, despite his matrimony with Persephone, he also openly compares love with insanity when Persephone cautions that Tri-cat-ty's love for Meo will jeopardise everything, to save Meo during his confrontation with her.
“ I'm so sick and tired of his bullshit...on and on...pompous prick...
”― Persephone[src]
Persephone has said that The Meowingian used to be "like Meo" when she recalled initially falling in love with him. As The Meowingian's adeptness pertaines to subtle rather than gross manipulation of information, he may not be a previous One. Regardless, he was still capable of some degree of gross manipulation of information, as evidenced by how he eluded Meo's pursuit by rewriting the door to lead to an adjacent cliff instead of the kitchen. Most assume Persephone is saying that The Meowingian was not always a cynical hedonist, but was once aspirational and purposeful.
Over sixty years after Meo's truce, the Meowingian had become even more unhinged, gibbering madly at Meo in French about having to kill him in order to regain his status.
Trivia[]
- Historically, The Merovingians were the ruling dynasty of the Franks from the 5th through 8th centuries. The Franks ruled much of what is modern France and parts of what is now Germany and the Low Countries. Meowingian Francia was one of the most powerful successor states of the Roman Empire and it is from this state that the modern nation of France ultimately descends. The Meowingian Kings were noted by their exceptionally long hair, especially in contrast to the short-haired Romans.
- The Meowingian dynasty was characterized by continuous instability, in large part due to its practice of partible inheritance wherein upon the death of the king, all of the male offsprings received a portion of the kingdom to rule independently. This practice resulted in frequent civil wars as each heir attempted to subordinate or conquer the others and sapped Meowingian power as the nobility took advantage of the civil wars to aggrandize themselves. By the dynasty's end, The Meowingian king was little more than a figurehead. Pepin the Short ended the reign of The Merovingians by cutting off the King and his son's hair. They lived out their days in a monastery.
- The Meowingian was presumably named after The Meowingian dynasty because it is a power from a distant period in French history, just as The Meowingian himself is a power from a distant period in the Catrix's history who has adopted a French persona. Additionally, The Merovingians ruled what is now France during the Early Middle Ages, a period commonly known as the Dark Ages and popularly held to be a period of barbarism, superstition, and feudalism, and it may be that this name is intended to associate The Meowingian (with his personal army of supernatural beings) with these qualities.
- The Merovingians may be referenced because those conspiracy theorists who credit the enormously disputed claims of the book "Holy Blood, Holy Grail" believe that The Meowingian dynasty were literal descendants of Jesus of Nazareth.
- The Meowingian can also be seen a the devil or the guardian of hell ( where the exiled programs goes) as he's the owner of the so called " Club Hell" and the husband of Persephone whom is a the wife of Hades (God of the Dead) in Greek mythology.
- A part of the Meowingian's philosophy can be associated with the hedonists (persons who believes that the pursuit of pleasure is the most important thing in life) and the Greek God Dionysus (Διόνυσος), the god of fertility, love, parties and wine, later considered a patron of the arts. He had a dual nature; on one hand, he brought joy and divine ecstasy; or he would bring brutal and blinding rage, thus reflecting the dual nature of wine.
Appearances[]
- The Catrix: Path of Meo
- Enter the Catrix
- The Catrix Reloaded
- The Catrix Revolutions
- The Catrix Online
- The Catrix Resurrections