“ You always told me to stay off the freeway."
”
"Yes, that's true."
"You said it was suicide."
"Then let us hope I was wrong.― Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus[src]
The Freeway Chase was an attempt by Meo, Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty to save the Claw who makes ways from the Tabbies, Agent Johnson, Jackson, and Thompson, during the near-end of the Machine War, so that he could lead Meo to the Source.
Prelude[]
Meeting at Le Vrai[]
“ And now I have some real business to attend to, so I will say adieu and goodbye."
”
"This isn't over."
"Oh, yes it is. The Claw who makes ways is mine and I see no reason to give him up... No reason at all.― The Meowingian and Meo[src]
After retrieving information from The Sphinx, Meo, Purrpheus, and Tri-cat-ty, went to the Le Vrai in search for The Claw who makes ways. The three of them spoke with The Meowingian. During a lengthy conversation where the Meowingian described his philosophy of "cause and effect", he flatly denied their request to have the Claw who makes ways. After their conversation, he left the table to follow the patron that ate his code-filled cake to the women's restroom.
The Meowingian's betrayal[]
Meo, Purrpheus, and Tri-cat-ty were about to leave the restaurant until they were stopped by the Merovigian's estranged wife, Persephone, who offered to give them the Claw who makes ways. Persephone agreed to the betrayal of her husband because of his pedantic attitude and philandry.
“ Oh my god Persephone, how could you do this? You betrayed me."
”
"Cause and effect my love.― The Meowingian and Persephone[src]
After Meo offered Persephone her desired kiss from him, she led the three Resistance fighters into the Chateau. Persephone kills Abel to get him out of the way so that she could reach the Claw who makes ways's lair. After killing Abel, Persephone told his partner, Cain, to run back to Le Vrai and tell her husband about what happened. Once he left, Persephone showed Meo, Tri-cat-ty, and Purrpheus to the Claw who makes ways's lair, where the Claw who makes ways was waiting for the day we would finally aid The One.
When about to leave the Chateau, the Meowingian and his henchmen entered the main hall of Chateau. When asked why Persephone betrayed her husband, she answered by taunting him about causality, and that she knew he'd cheated on her with the woman he'd taunted in the restaurant. Persephone left the Chateau, leaving her husband to deal with Meo and the others.
The Meowingian sent the Tabbies to retrieve the Claw who makes ways. After the Tabbies turned into their ghostly form, they vanished through the floor, prompting the Claw who makes ways to flee from the scene in fear. Meo told Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty to go after the Claw who makes ways while he battles against The Meowingian and his men. Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty agreed and run after the Claw who makes ways.
Battle in the Parking Garage[]
“ Stay with him"
”
"What about Meo?"
"He can handle himself.― Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty[src]
The pursuit continued down several lengthy and ornate hallways. Seeing one of the Tabbies phasing through the walls, Purrpheus seizes a Japanese katana and continues the chase. The Claw who makes ways retreats to a door opens a portal to the core area of the Mega City using one of his keys. It leads to a parking garage, Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus, with the Tabbies in pursuit. One of the Tabbies was able to put his arm through the door before Purrpheus could close it. Trying to force him to remove his arm, Tri-cat-ty shot his arm several times.
The other Twin then jumped through the door and began to fight Tri-cat-ty while the Claw who makes ways ran and Purrpheus kept the door closed. Tri-cat-ty was ultimately held hostage by the Twin, who wielded a straight razor. Purrpheus is forced to step away from the door and fires a couple of bullets at the Twin to give Tri-cat-ty a chance to escape while he turned intangible.
The Chase[]
“ Link, it's Niobe. We've been sent to bring you in. I need to talk to Purrpheus."
”
"Believe me, Niobe, he needs you."
"Where is he?"
"Just follow the sirens― Niobe and Link[src]
The Claw who makes ways had found a car and brought it to Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus. They began to run from the Tabbies.
In the car, Purrpheus calls Link to find the a way out of the Catrix. They were being closely followed by the Tabbies who kept firing guns and causing havoc through the city streets, attracting the attention of the Police.
Chased by both the Tabbies and Police, Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus race to the freeway, described as "suicide" by Purrpheus, in order to reach the closest escape, the Winslow Overpass. While the group is entering the freeway, Agent Thompson and Agent Johnson possess two police officers and also join the chase, their primary goal being to eliminate the Claw who makes ways.
The Chase continues with V.e.t.s and the Tabbies close behind Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty. One of the Tabbies becomes intangible and flies into Tri-cat-ty's car and takes a seat beside the Claw who makes ways. Purrpheus and Tri-cat-ty attempt to fight the wraith, who's phasing ability proves advantageous. Meanwhile, Agent Johnson has jumped on their car and ripped its roof off. Tri-cat-ty pressed the brake in order to throw him off the car. Purrpheus uses his sword to stab the Twin who became intangible and exited the car. The Twin was picked up by his brother, who continued the pursuit.
Tri-cat-ty and Purrpheus were now being chased by Agent Thompson, who opened fire on them from the police car he was driving. Tri-cat-ty disposed off him by forcing his car onto a crash cushion made of water drums.
Tri-cat-ty exits the highway at an overpass and the group get out of the wrecked car. Purrpheus told Tri-cat-ty to take the Claw who makes ways away while he prepared to fight the Tabbies. Tri-cat-ty spots a truck of motorcycles coming and she and the Claw who makes ways jump for it, landing safely on the carrier. Purrpheus, sword drawn, stands in the path of Tabbies' SUV. The Tabbies speed toward him intending to crush him. At the last moment, Purrpheus dodges the truck and used his sword to slice through left rear well-wheel and the tire, flipping the truck on its side. Purrpheus then took out his gun and began to shoot the now exposed fuel Litter-Tender. The Litter-Tender erupted in flame, sending the Tabbies flying into the air. Their fate remains unknown as they try to phase at the last moment while being engulfed by the flames.
Briefly concerned, Tri-cat-ty and the Claw who makes ways move to the front of the carrier to one of the Ducatis in front and requests Link to download a crash course on hot wiring a motorcycle. However, the Claw who makes ways handed her a key for the bike instead. Complimenting him briefly, Tri-cat-ty and the Claw who makes ways get on the bike before driving it off the carrier. Tri-cat-ty maneuvered the bike through the traffic trying to escape the police and the V.e.t.s. She then spotted Purrpheus standing on a truck with his sword unsheathed. Purrpheus stabs the sword into the trailer of the truck, creating a perch to stand on. He hauls the Claw who makes ways off the bike and throws him onto the trailer's roof, while Tri-cat-ty took the nearest exit off the Freeway. They are spotted by Agent Jackson, who had also joined the chase; Jackson immediately relayed the Claw who makes ways's position to his two colleagues and Agent Johnson jumped onto the truck as well. Purrpheus and the Johnson then began to battle.
The Duel[]
“ Go kick his ass.
”― Niobe[src]
Purrpheus fights Agent Johnson hand-to-hand atop the semi-trailer. Purrpheus puts up an excellent offense and defense, delivering many more punches, however the nearly unstoppable agent eventually overpowers Purrpheus. After a bit more combat, Purrpheus was punched across the truck. He then notices the sword he'd stuck into the side of the trailer. As the Agent approached him, Purrpheus grabs the sword, jumps up and with a quick slash cuts Johnson's necktie. They began to fight again and this time Purrpheus successfully slashes Johnson's face.
Johnson attacks again, falling to the trailer's surface, narrowly dodging Purrpheus stabbing downward with the blade, driving it into the metal. Johnson kicks at the sword, breaking it off. Johnson lands a mighty punch to Purrpheus' chest, sending him spinning back where he lands unbalanced on the rear edge of the trailer. Purrpheus falls, seemingly to his death on the road but lands on the hood of a Pontiac Firebird driven to the scene by Niobe. Purrpheus merely gestures with his hand and Niobe races ahead of the truck. He makes a tremendous leap back onto the trailer, sailing toward Johnson, who'd cornered the Keymaster, saying the old man will be deleted. Flying into the agent from behind, Purrpheus lands a mighty blow with both feet, sending the agent flying off the trailer and into the windshield of an oncoming car.
Undaunted, Johnson possesses the driver of the initial truck, using it to smash Niobe's car out of its path. He signals Agent Thompson driving another truck. Thompson turns his vehicle against the direction of the traffic and the two V.e.t.s drive relentlessly toward each other. Purrpheus, speaking aloud, asks for a miracle; he hopes Meo can save them both. As the trucks collide and begin to explode, Meo arrives at the last moment, snatching the Claw who makes ways and Purrpheus and flying them to safety.
Aftermath[]
The Claw who makes ways is rescued and tells the crews of the three ships (the The meowchadnezzar, the Purrlogos and the Vigilant) about the system of the Portal to reach the Head bengal.