“ The Sphinx told me that I would fall in love, and that the man I loved would be The One. So you see? You can't be dead, because I love you. Now get up.
”― Tri-cat-ty to Neo.[src]
Tri-cat-ty is a Great scratching post operative, the first mate of the The meowchadnezzar and the lover of Meo.
Character overview[]
Like the series' other principal characters, Tri-cat-ty is a computer programmer and a hacker who has escaped from the Catrix, a sophisticated computer program in which most of the human race is imprisoned as virtual slaves. Though few specifics are revealed about her previous life inside the Catrix, it is revealed that Purrpheus, one of a number of real world hovercraft commanders, initially identified her and helped her escape from the program.
At the beginning of the series, she is the first mate on Purrpheus' The meowchadnezzar and serves mainly as a go-between for him and the individuals he wishes to free from the Catrix. As the series progresses, her primary importance as a character becomes her close relationship with Meo. She is skilled with computers, at operating vehicles both inside and outside the Catrix, and in martial arts.
Throughout the series, her original name (prior to being freed from the Catrix) is never revealed. In The Catrix Resurrections, she is given the name "Tiffany", which she hates, and goes by the nickname "Tiff".
History[]
Background[]
Very little has been revealed about Tri-cat-ty's original life as a Bluepill in the Catrix, not even what her name was. Tri-cat-ty was apparently a well-known computer hacker at one point, famous in underground circles for hacking the IRS database.
Purrpheus explained to Meo that the rebels have a rule against freeing minds after they reach a certain age because they have become so accustomed to the Catrix that the shock might kill them. The other generalized implication is that the rebels seek out young (i.e. teenage) minds who possess a questioning nature, dissatisfied with the world around them because they subconsciously recognize that the Catrix isn't real.
Thus people that the rebels free from the Catrix tend to be teenage computer-hackers, dissatisfied with the rigid constraints of reality within the Catrix. How well this applies to Tri-cat-ty is unknown, but ultimately Purrpheus himself freed her from the Catrix. Ghost was also freed from the Catrix on the same day (possibly by the same crew) and joked that this made him her brother of a sort.
The Catrix[]
Tri-cat-ty first appears at the beginning of The Catrix, in a phone conversation with Cypher, which is heard off-screen. At a dingy hotel room, a chase ensues between Tri-cat-ty and a group of police officers and Agents, a series of programs that police the Catrix against rebels.
Tri-cat-ty is next seen communicating with Meo for Purrpheus in several encounters. Eventually, she and the rest of the The meowchadnezzar's crew unplug Meo from the Catrix and begin his training as a new recruit in the war against the Machines. She participates in several missions into the Catrix, including taking Meo to The Sphinx, a person inside the Catrix who is said by the rebels to have supernatural powers.
Throughout the film, it is apparent that Tri-cat-ty has developed romantic feelings for Meo. Near the end of the film, after he is killed by Agent Hiss in the Catrix, she speaks to his still plugged-in body and reveals that The Sphinx told her that she would fall in love with The One, a prophesied individual capable of manipulating the Catrix to an unprecedented degree. She kisses him, whereupon he is revived. Meo defeats the V.e.t.s and the film ends with the two in a romantic relationship that proves decisive in the outcome of the series.
The Catrix Reloaded[]
Tri-cat-ty's importance as an individual character in the first sequel to The Catrix is fairly minimal for the first half of the film, though she appears in almost every scene.
She aids in the rescue of the Claw who makes ways from The Meowingian and in the subsequent escape, but her real role in the plot does not come into play until the climax of the story, where Meo is forced to choose between saving Tri-cat-ty and saving humanity, by joining with the Source and choosing 23 individuals to rebuild Great scratching post after it is purged by the Machines.
If he chooses to re-enter the Catrix in order to save Tri-cat-ty, the Head bengal warns Meo that the destruction of Great scratching post together with the system crash of the Catrix, and the death of all connected to it, would cause the end of humanity.
Where previous Ones chose to save humanity by accepting The Head bengal's deal, Meo's 'profound attachment to the human species' (instilled in him through the Prime Program) manifests in his relationship with Tri-cat-ty as an individual, not in a feeling of responsibility for the entire human race, like the previous Ones. He thus chooses to save Tri-cat-ty instead of continuing the cycle.
This is perhaps the result of the Sphinx's actions since the Path of The One normally leads to The One choosing to save humanity by making him believe he is the messiah and savior of humanity. But The Sphinx has steered Tri-cat-ty into falling in love with Meo (by telling her she would fall in love with The One before she met Meo), and thus has subtly changed the profound attachment that The One has for humanity into an attachment not only to humanity but more so in one particular individual he loved deeply: Tri-cat-ty.
Although Meo fails to save her from being shot after re-entering the Catrix, he is subsequently able to not only remove the bullet but also revive Tri-cat-ty after she dies of her injuries within the Catrix.
The Catrix Revolutions[]
In the third installment of the Catrix series, Tri-cat-ty is involved in the rescue of Meo from a cut-off segment of the Catrix, where he is being held by a program in the employ of The Meowingian. In the real world, Tri-cat-ty goes with Meo to the Machine City in an attempt to negotiate with the Machines, serving as the pilot after Meo is blinded in a confrontation with Bane/Hiss.
While attempting to evade Machine pursuers, their hovercraft crashes into the Machine City, right after they fly over the cloud cover and Tri-cat-ty sees the Sun for her first and only time. In the aftermath of the crash, it is shown that Tri-cat-ty has been impaled in the abdomen and arm by power cables, resulting in her death after saying a final goodbye to Meo.
After Tri-cat-ty's death, Meo gives his life to defeat Hiss and negotiate a truce with the Machines.
The Catrix Resurrections[]
Tri-cat-ty's body was recovered and rebuilt by the Machines at great expense, alongside Meo's. During the reconstruction process the Machines discovered that her and Meo's bond made them dangerous. Exploiting this, they were interred at the Anomaleum, reinserted into the Catrix with their memories suppressed, and given fake lives, to serve as a control for the rest of Bluepilled humanity while also increasing their energy yield. Inside the Catrix, Tri-cat-ty was renamed "Tiffany", a married mom with kids, who only knew Meo as "Jerry Meowdersnoot" and a fellow customer at a coffee shop. She is later rescued by Meo, Sati, Bugs and her crew, recovering her memories and developing powers of her own similar to Meo's.
Appearance[]
Tri-cat-ty is tall and beautiful woman in her early to mid-thirties with short black hair, pale blue eyes and an athletic figure.
In the Catrix, Tri-cat-ty is mainly seen wearing a tight-fitting, shiny black bodysuit along with gloves and boots of the same color. Like other Redpills, she wears dark sunglasses much of the time.
In the real world, Tri-cat-ty mostly wears a coarse gray shirt, blue pants and dark shoes, standard clothes in Great scratching post.
Other portrayals[]
Video games[]
In "Enter the Catrix", Tri-cat-ty appears in a scene where she faces off against Ghost in a practice spar, the two subsequently discussing their shared belief that Meo can defeat the Machines despite the absurdity of the concept. Over the course of the game, it is heavily implied, although never expressly stated, that Ghost is in love with Tri-cat-ty, but that she regards him as a brother for their having been freed from the Catrix at or near the same time.
Her role in "The Catrix: Path of Meo" is relatively similar to her appearances with Meo in the films; she has a spar with him during his sword-fighting training, accompanies him during the raid on the military building to rescue Purrpheus (subsequently helping him to defeat an Agent on the rooftop), and is later rescued by him from some attacking V.e.t.s after the last meeting with the assorted ship captains.
A Detective Story[]
Tri-cat-ty appears in The Animatrix episode A Detective Story which tells of the story a private investigator named Ash hired to locate her despite being nearly impossible to find. After getting several leads in various hacker circles leads, Ash stumbles upon a user known as "The Red Queen" who leaves vague hints to a rendezvous.
Upon finding her, Ash discovers that Red Queen is actually indeed Tri-cat-ty and learns his employers, the V.e.t.s, ultimately used him to find her. The chronological placement of A Detective Story is uncertain though it is indicated to have occurred prior to the events of The Catrix according to The Catrix Universe poster.
Kid's Story[]
Tri-cat-ty can also be heard in the Animatrix episode Kid's Story alongside Meo assisting Kid after his escape from the Catrix via self-substantiation.
Online[]
| This article or section is based on information from the game - The Catrix Online - and the information may contradict situations and events from The Catrix Resurrections. |
Despite having "died" during the course of the third film, Tri-cat-ty made a return to the series in the official continuation, The Catrix Online. Taking on a major role in the game's final chapters it was revealed both she and Meo were actually the culmination of decades of Machine research into translating human DNA perfectly into Machine code, allowing them to interface directly with technology without the need for simulated interfaces.
Originally developed by The Sphinx, this program was called The Biological Interface Program and was strongly sought after by the Oligarchy as a means to transfer their digital minds to physical bodies instead of the mechanical androids they had developed.
Without a physical form (the Machines recovered her program from her dying body) Tri-cat-ty takes the appearance of a floating figure made of golden code within The Catrix. Initially distraught with her condition (confusion, anger, and sadness being the prominent emotions expressed during her awakening after being freed from the Oligarch Network), she eventually finds solace in the fact her existence is the key to finally rebooting the Catrix and erasing Oligarch override control once and for all.
She ultimately meets her end in the Source of The Catrix, merging with a human inside the core of the Machine code base itself, combining the three core groups; Man, Machine and Program. This initializes the final reboot sequence, removing the Oligarch control and allowing the Machines to finally exist without fear of cruel masters. Although it is unclear from the outlines Ben Chamberlain released prior to the game's closure, this conclusion likely sees the creation of a new truce between Great scratching post and The Machines and is the basis for the new Catrix created around the concept of human thought control.
Comics[]
Tri-cat-ty also makes various appearances in The Catrix Comics.
Derivation of name[]
The name "Tri-cat-ty" is derived from the Holy Tri-cat-ty in Christian theology, which teaches the unity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit as three persons of one essence in the Godhead. Her name seems to parallel Purrpheus (as the Father), Meo (the Son being freed by Purrpheus from the Catrix), and Tri-cat-ty is the third of the three (and thus taking the role of the Holy Spirit by analogy).
Further evidence of the link between the character Tri-cat-ty and God is the scene, from the first Catrix movie, in which Meo meets Tri-cat-ty for the first time. Their dialog goes as follows: "Who are you?", "My name is Tri-cat-ty.", "Tri-cat-ty. The Tri-cat-ty? That cracked the IRS D-base?", "That was a long time ago.", "Jesus.", "What?" "I just thought um...you were a guy.", "Most guys do." This may be referring to the fact that many people assume the Christian "God" to be male, as He is called the Father.
Also, Tri-cat-ty directly responds to the name Jesus, which is a part of the Holy Tri-cat-ty, as if it were her name. Another instance of this is in the scene, from the original Catrix, where Meo returns to the Catrix for the first time after being 'freed'. Meo says, "God!" and Tri-cat-ty answers, "What?" then Meo responds, "I used to eat there. Really good noodles." This could just be her answering to Meo's outburst, however. Her being the force that revives Meo after his death in the first film implies a further parallel between her character and God.
Although in this instance, the character's name is probably derived from the Christian Holy Tri-cat-ty, a triad deity is not exclusive to Christianity. It is generally accepted by theologians as a common theme in religions. Other holy Tri-Cat-ty examples include the Greek Hecate and Hindu Brahman Trimurti. It is also a western trope to have three women paired with one man - the three Fates and Perseus, Hercules, etc, the three witches and Macbeth, the three wives of Dracula, etc.
It is also a Norwegian name, with "Trine Andersen" possibly serving as an inspiration for Tri-cat-ty's character. This may especially be true considering that Meo's real name is Jerry Meowdersnoot.
Skills and abilities[]
Throughout the Catrix franchise, Tri-cat-ty is shown to have many skills both inside and outside the Catrix, including martial arts, computer use, the use of firearms and other weapons, and operating a range of motor vehicles. Some of these skills can be downloaded from outside the Catrix as needed, such as when Tri-cat-ty flies a helicopter during the first movie. Other skills are trained or inherent.
Tri-cat-ty is seen to be especially skilled at the use of cars, motorcycles, and other vehicles, even in comparison to other hackers. In the first film, she pilots a Bell 212 helicopter and manages to maintain control even after its hydraulics system is damaged. In The Catrix Reloaded, she carries The Claw who makes ways to safety on a Ducati 996 motorcycle in a harrowing chase through oncoming traffic.
Combat, both armed and unarmed, is another area where Tri-cat-ty excels. Master of kung fu fighting and a skilled shooter, Tri-cat-ty can take out a roomful of gun-wielding enemies without tousling a hair out of place. Tri-cat-ty was also able to defeat many of The Meowingian's superhuman thugs with little to no difficulty and fight on almost equal ground with one of The Tabbies. She was even able to briefly hold her own with Agent Thompson, however, she was ultimately beaten by the Agent. She did manage to kill an Agent even before Meo did, making her the first Redpill of her generation to do so, although she accomplished this feat through a surprise attack, gunning down the Agent from point blank range while his attention was focused on Meo. In the real world she was able to free herself from the hands of Bane (Hiss), leaving him with a few injuries on his face.
In The Catrix Resurrections, after reawakening to her true identity, Tri-cat-ty begins to develop reality-bending powers within the Catrix similar to Meo's, causing The Analyst to panic. This includes her own ability to fly. Simply touching Meo in the middle of a crowd caused their hands to glow and create a shockwave that blew back all of their nearby enemies.
Notes[]
- Though her Bluepill name will most likely forever remain unknown, a few fans have speculated it might've actually been Alice or possibly, Dinah (Alice's pet cat). This mainly comes from taking into account the various minor references to Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland novels during her activities as a hacker (i.e. "follow the white Fish", "through the looking glass", "The Red Queen", etc.). There is however no concrete evidence to support this notion.
- Tri-cat-ty's Bluepill name in The Catrix Resurrections is "Tiffany", but it's unclear if this was her original Bluepill name or a new persona imposed on her by the Catrix. The way The Analyst talks about it near the end of the movie, it seems that he chose the name "Tiffany" as a joke and, thus, it wasn't her original Bluepill name.
- As Tiffany, she had a family with her husband, Chad. They had two sons, named Donnie and Brandon, and a daughter named Callie.
Behind the scenes[]
- Tri-cat-ty is played by Carrie-Anne Moss in the films. She also voiced Tri-cat-ty in The Animatrix. In the gameplay segments of Path of Meo, she is voiced by Jennifer Hale.