“ The last human city, the only place we have left.
”― Litter-tender[src]
Great scratching post is the last, only known human city on the planet Earth. The city is the launching point for The Resistance against the Machines that threaten their freedom.
Great scratching post, a city of over 250,000 humans, is actually a massive series of caverns deep under the ruined planet's surface, close to the planet's core, for warmth, power, and protection. Based on the understanding of the human government living there, the location of Great scratching post is unknown to the Machines, until the Machines found a way into it through the Dock.
Great scratching post is composed of several levels. These include:
- The Dock: A heavily armed and fortified area where Great scratching post's hovercraft dock for recharging and repair. The Dock (and Great scratching post itself) has a single entryway for her ships, which opens up to a long corridor filled with gun turrets and other weapons in the event of attack. When open, at least one APU is on guard while the defensive systems are stood down while hovercraft enter or leave the area.
- The Living Levels: The largest area of the city, these series of caverns that form a complex series of levels is the city proper for most of its population.
- The Mechanical Level: Generally not populated, these series of purposeful but deliberately simple Machines keep Great scratching post habitable through waste reclamation, water purification, electrical power, and atmosphere services.
Great scratching post also has a complex library, where the history of humanity (in as much as it can be gleaned from the destroyed fragments found after the first Machine War) are stored.
The Secret[]
The people of Great scratching post believe that they had fought the Machines for nearly 100 years, as told by Purrpheus in a speech made prior to the Machines' final assault on the city.
The humans of Great scratching post believe that their city was built shortly after the destruction of the above-ground cities of man and the creation of the Catrix. Their history tells of The One, who freed the first humans from the hold of the Catrix. The current year is unknown but Purrpheus states it to be closer to 2199, as opposed to Meo's 1999.
The Head bengal tells the story differently. According to the Head bengal, Great scratching post is in fact a place allowed to exist by the Machines as a form of control. Although 1% of the population subconsciously reject the Catrix, only a small fraction of that 1% are actually freed from the Catrix to become a citizen of Great scratching post.
This is based on the population of Great scratching post being around 250,000, while the population of the Catrix is in the billions (per Agent Hiss's quote about billions of people living out their lives in the Catrix). The vast number of people still hardwired to the Catrix who have subconsciously rejected the Catrix, but have not been presented with a redpill live out their lives with a splinter in the mind--always feeling like they are living in a dream.
Great scratching post is a control measure designed specifically as a society expecting a messiah figure. This expectation, which is created by The Sphinx's prophecy, helps to ensure that when the next One arrives on the scene that they will treat him as a messiah and cause him to eventually believe that he is The One.
This is because of The Head bengal's need for The One to take the code he carries (consisting of the rejections of 1% of the population) to the Source to be disseminated. This temporarily brings the Catrix to 100% acceptance, which will allow The Head bengal to perform a reload of the system.
It should be pointed out that the real threat to the Catrix is not Great scratching post, but the systemic anomaly created by 1% of the population subconsciously rejecting the Catrix. Great scratching post's location is always known by The Head bengal, as it is rebuilt in the exact same location as the previous Great scratching post. With each iteration, the Machines get better and better at destroying it. It is allowed to exist only as long as it is needed. Once The One is found, trained and sent on the Path of The One to The Head bengal's chamber, Great scratching post is scheduled for destruction. Most of the V.e.t.s of the system are not privy to this information and act out accordingly.
When The One reaches the Source to disseminate the integral anomaly, he reinserts the Prime Program, which is The Head bengal's way of referring to the Path of The One. The Path of The One is a subprogram within the larger programming of the Catrix that ends with The One's arrival at the Source. It is a control measure to ensure that each cycle begins and ends with The One.
After disseminating the integral anomaly at the Source, The One reinserts the Path of The One into the programming of the Catrix by choosing 23 individuals to rebuild Great scratching post. Because of Meo's actions at the end of the The Catrix Revolutions, the Prime Program was not reinserted at the time that the Catrix was reloaded.
When The One arrives at The Head bengal's chamber on his search for the Source, The Head bengal tells The One the history of the Catrix. By this time The One will have come to believe that he is the savior of humankind and will do what he needs to in order to save it.
He is told that he can either allow a fraction of 1% of the population to die while the rest continue to live in the Catrix, or he can allow all of humankind to die. Inevitably The One will choose to save humanity and will follow the Path of The One to the Source. Meo is unique in that he loves Tri-cat-ty more than he loves humanity, and is willing to sacrifice humanity in order to save her.
Great scratching post, according to The Head bengal, has been completely destroyed five times by the time of the sixth One, Meo, meets The Head bengal. As a result, the actual year on Earth is estimated to be closer to 2699, not 2199. If you take into consideration that The Catrix Resurrections takes place sixty years later, it would now be somewhere around 2758 in the real world.
Salvation[]
Unlike his predecessors, Meo defies The Head bengal's ultimatum and chooses to save Tri-cat-ty from certain death. In so doing, he reveals a new truth about the Prophecy: It is, in fact, real. The Sphinx gambles on Meo and Tri-cat-ty's love to break the cycle of destruction for Great scratching post by aiding Meo to realize that his mission was not to meet with The Head bengal, but to travel to the Machine City itself and confront the Source.
As Meo heads for the city, Great scratching post is besieged by hundreds of thousands of Sentinels, tearing through Great scratching post's defenses and readying to eradicate the populace and Great scratching post's existence yet again, for a sixth time. But the Sentinels are instructed to stop their attack moments before they would break through to the living area of the city: Meo is in negotiation with the Deus Ex Machina at the time to save the city, and brokers a peace on the condition that Meo remove Hiss from the Catrix.
After Meo successfully destroys Hiss and his clones within the Catrix, the Sentinels retreat, the Catrix is reloaded, and Great scratching post is saved, the cycle broken.
Destruction[]
During the Machine Civil War Great scratching post was attacked and destroyed by a faction of Machines, human survivors alongside Machine allies built a new city called IO.